{"title": "Fox Will Follow Red Sox Surge With Reality TV", "body_text": "Two weeks ago, the Fox network was deep in the ratings basement, its performance so dismal it was unclear how it would climb out of the hole it had dug for itself. Then along came the Boston Red Sox. By winning their first World Series in 86 years, the Red Sox did more than just reward their long-suffering fans; they set up what could be the closest ratings race ever among the four major broadcast networks. While Fox's overall ratings this new season are down about 6 percent from last year, the network has moved from fourth place into first among viewers from ages 18 to 49, which all the networks other than CBS define as the only competition that counts. Now, Fox needs to maintain that momentum. And it plans to compete with an onslaught of reality programming never seen before in network television. Beginning this week, Fox is unveiling a schedule that no scriptwriter could love. Although the drama ''The O.C.'' and comedies like ''Arrested Development'' and ''The Simpsons'' are returning, nine of the network's weekly 15 hours of programming -- 60 percent of its total schedule -- will be made up of reality shows. This Wednesday, a ferocious nanny will begin teaching a family how to behave, in ''Nanny 911.'' ''My Big Fat Obnoxious Boss,'' a spoof of NBC's ''The Apprentice'' in which a fake boss makes a group of contestants all but grovel for his approval, makes its debut on Sunday. And beginning on Nov. 9, the British entrepreneur Richard Branson will try to teach a group of young people how to risk life and limb to become wealthy in ''The Rebel Billionaire.'' Fox is banking on reality to hold the ratings fort until January. That is when some new scripted series and returning shows like ''24'' -- along with the network's reality life preserver, ''American Idol'' -- go on the air. The strategy is a risky one. Reality shows tend to be less attractive to advertisers, and by introducing so many reality series, the network might kill off a genre that has all but saved network television over the last five years. ''It's flying in the face of what is happening elsewhere,'' said Steve Sternberg, senior vice president of the media buying company Magna Global USA, referring to the failure of several new reality shows (like ''The Next Great Champ'') and the success of new dramas (like ''Desperate Housewives''). But Fox, which announced its intention last spring to reconstruct the whole nature of the television season, is simply playing its own game. ''I don't even know what's normal anymore,'' said Preston Beckman, executive vice president of program planning for Fox. Fox has been among the most aggressive networks in moving away from the classic September-May television season, staggering the premieres of shows so it can run original programming throughout the year. That approach allows broadcast networks to avoid repeats, which have a tendency to send viewers to the original programming playing on cable channels. In addition, the baseball playoffs put Fox at a disadvantage for starting new shows in September, because it would have had to pre-empt episodes through much of October. Mr. Beckman said Fox decided this year that it needed ''to take a different approach coming out of baseball.'' That meant not trying to start up a batch of new series, some clearly aimed at women, as it did last year with dramas like the ill-fated ''Skin.'' Instead, Fox larded its baseball coverage with promotions for man-friendly reality fare like the Branson series (a combination of ''The Apprentice,'' ''Amazing Race'' and ''Fear Factor'') and especially ''Obnoxious Boss'' in an attempt to create a kind of ''obnoxious'' franchise. Last year, Fox scored with an obnoxious fianc\u00e9; this year an actor playing an ersatz business mogul systematically humiliates some hapless contestants, all in good fun. Fox, viewing the show as a comedy, has placed it on Sunday at 9 p.m., after four situation comedies. That night is one of the few where Fox has any concentration of scripted series. The only other night where two hours of scripted shows run back to back is Thursday, where Fox has placed its most promising series, ''The O.C.,'' putting it up against CBS's ''Survivor'' and NBC's ''Joey'' in the hopes it can finally reap some of the lucrative ad money spent on Thursday night by movie companies and car dealers. ''I'm feeling optimistic that we may finally get a toehold on the most important night of the week,'' Mr. Beckman said. Monday, meanwhile, has two reality hours, ''Trading Spouses,'' the wife-swapping experiment, and ''The Swan,'' the beauty contest for post-cosmetic-surgery ugly ducklings. Wednesday has ''Nanny 911.'' Friday has two half-hour video-clip shows, followed by ''Renovate My Family,'' a makeover show for entire family units. And Saturdays have the hoary Fox reality duo, ''Cops'' and ''America's Most Wanted.'' Part of the rationale for this heavy dose of reality is boldness: Mr. Beckman noted that Fox was trying to deconstruct the traditional television season. Another part, he acknowledged, is pure necessity. Fox saw one returning scripted show, ''Bernie Mac,'' put on hiatus. But some critics and industry executives suggest another explanation: Fox is all but bereft of strong scripted series. ''They don't have the scripted guns anymore,'' said Stacey Lynn Koerner, executive vice president of Initiative Media. ''They had 'Ally McBeal,' they had 'X-Files.' Those shows don't exist anymore.'' Fox has a few newer scripted shows like the comedy ''Quintuplets'' and the soap ''North Shore.'' But Mr. Sternberg said that neither of these elicited much more than a tepid response in tryouts earlier. In addition, several long-running Fox shows, like ''Malcolm in the Middle,'' ''King of the Hill'' and ''That 70's Show,'' are showing signs of wear. ''In some other publication, I accused Fox of creative bankruptcy,'' said Jon Mandel, the chairman of MediaCom US, the media service division of Grey Global. Although he said that Mr. Beckman had disputed that characterization, he said two of Fox's new reality series, ''Trading Spouses'' and ''Nanny 911,'' are copies of ABC shows. Mr. Mandel added, ''I think I stand by my line about creative bankruptcy.'' The other potential downside to a reality-centric schedule is that it almost surely cannot make as much money as a schedule skewed toward scripted series, said Mr. Mandel, whose MediaCom clients include such big television advertisers as Procter & Gamble, Mars Inc. and BellSouth. In general, advertisers are still more reluctant to back reality shows, Mr. Mandel said, or at least certain reality shows. '''American Idol' is O.K. for any advertiser,'' he said. ''It's when you get to the schlocky stuff, like 'The Swan' and 'Obnoxious Boss,' that it becomes a problem for some advertisers.'' The style of Fox reality, he said, tends ''to have a negativity that unfortunately a lot of people don't find very entertaining.'' Although the idea of a cohesive schedule may be a relic, Mr. Mandel added: ''I think there will be such a thing as a cohesive brand. With CBS, for example, you pretty much know what you're going to get. With Fox, you don't really know. I wonder if those negative, put-down reality shows don't affect the traditional scripted shows. ''When you do a great show like 'Arrested Development,' it can't get arrested,'' he said. ''Maybe it's because nobody expected it on Fox.'' Ms. Koerner, however, praised the network. ''I applaud them for sticking by what they said they were going to do,'' she said. ''They have rolled out their schedule just as they said they would.'' And Mr. Sternberg, pointing to previous midseason successes like ''The Simpsons'' and ''Malcolm in the Middle,'' said that Fox should never be counted out. ''They have a long history of being able to come up with new hits when they really need them,'' Mr. Sternberg said."}