{"title": "Broadcast Industry Increases Lobbying Budget, Study Says", "body_text": "Washington has been hostile territory for some media companies recently, and the industry has responded by spreading more money around. The broadcast communications industry increased its spending on lobbyists more than 16 percent over the last five years, according to a study released Thursday by the Center for Public Integrity, a nonpartisan media watchdog organization. Clear Channel Communications, the broadcasting giant that has been the target of obscenity fines by a more vigilant Federal Communications Commission, was a particularly active spender last year. The company paid $2.28 million to lobbyists last year, up from $68,675 in 2002. Over all, the industry, defined in the study as broadcasters, cable networks and telecommunications companies, spent $169.2 million in 2003 on lobbying, up from $145.3 million in 1998. By contrast, the oil and gas industry lobby grew only slightly over the same period, spending $59.4 million in 2003, up from $58.8 million in 1998, according to a separate study conducted by the center. ''The media is, by and large, an industry, and it has legislative goals,'' said John Dunbar, the lead author of the study. Two items high on the industry's agenda are deregulation and a relaxation of restrictions on media ownership. The industry also made campaign contributions totaling $1.81 million to President Bush, widely acknowledged as a proponent of deregulation, and $1.1 million to Senator John Kerry. However, contributions to the Democratic Party outpaced those to the Republican Party by nearly $20 million over the last six years, according to the study. The Washington Post Company, which continued to expand its digital cable operations, quadrupled its lobbying budget to $360,000 in 2003, up from $80,000 in 2002. Belo, which lobbied the F.C.C. to lift its ban on owning a newspaper and a television station in the same city, spent $420,000 last year, up from $200,000 a year earlier. Another big spender in Washington is the News Corporation, the parent company of Fox News, which spent $3.9 million on lobbying expenditures in 2003. Employees of News Corporation have given $3.3 million in political contributions since 1998. Despite accusations that the company has a right-wing slant, 81 percent of those donations went to the Democratic Party. Some critics have charged that some of the goals of lobbying are not in the best interests of consumers. ''The press has indoctrinated itself in the United States in the form of a corporate model,'' said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, the director of the Annenberg Public Policy Center and former dean of the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania. She also predicted that the communications industry was likely to continue spending heavily in Washington. ''They want to keep the gains they've got, and they want to consolidate further,'' she said. Mr. Dunbar agreed and said there was no foreseeable end to the med-ia's use of lobbyists. ''The only time that will stop is when there aren't any more government regulations,'' he said. ''Then, you've won.'' Correction:  November 2, 2004, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day yesterday about a 16 percent rise in spending on lobbying by the media industry over the last five years referred to the figure imprecisely. It was for the communications industry as a whole --broadcasters, cable networks and telecommunications companies -- not just for broadcasters."}