{"title": "Did the F.D.A.'s approval of Applied Digital's implantable chip help its long-term outlook?", "body_text": "THE recent news that the Food and Drug Administration had approved an implantable microchip for humans has garnered a lot of attention. But that does not mean that the idea of chips as personal identity tags will ever generate profits. The device, called the VeriChip and marketed by Applied Digital Solutions, horrified privacy advocates, who were concerned less with its F.D.A.-approved use than with where the technology might lead, declaring that people could become walking bar codes. Investors, however, piled into Applied Digital's stock, sending it up 68 percent, to $3.57, on Oct. 13, the day of the announcement. The shares, which are listed on the Nasdaq, later climbed as high as $4.62. On Friday, the shares closed at $4, up 19 cents, or 5 percent. Moving quickly to exploit the optimism, Applied Digital announced on Oct. 22 that it had raised $11.9 million in a private sale of 2.5 million shares at $3.61 a share, and warrants to buy nearly 2.2 million shares. The purchaser was Satellite Strategic Finance Associates, an investment company that bought $2 million of shares of Applied Digital in April. It is far from clear, however, whether the F.D.A. approval actually moved Applied Digital far enough toward its long-term vision to make it a less risky stock. Scott R. Silverman, Applied Digital's chairman and chief executive, said that investors in the company, which is based in Delray Beach, Fla., see VeriChip as ''the proverbial home run'' and said that he was not about to discourage that view. While he insisted that a revamping that the company had undergone has created a business that can survive without VeriChip, he said that ''Veri-Chip's what's going to deliver value to shareholders in the long run.'' The F.D.A.'s approval is for Veri-Chip's use in a system that would give health care workers quick access to the medical records of anyone who had been implanted with the device. But the average ballplayer has a far better chance of hitting a home run than the average investor has of picking big winners among the thousands of new technologies that small companies like Applied Digital are trying to take to the market. In this case, investors also face the challenge of understanding Applied Digital's intricate finances and relationships with its publicly traded subsidiaries, Digital Angel and Infotech USA. Digital Angel also cashed in on the jump in Applied Digital stock after the F.D.A.'s announcement, selling close to 1.07 million shares of Applied Digital for $4 million. That stock was obtained in March in a stock swap with Applied Digital. The complicated financial structure is tied to Applied Digital's past. Applied Digital grew out of a wireless communications venture called Applied Cellular Technology. Richard J. Sullivan, a veteran entrepreneur, became chief executive in 1993, took the company public in 1994 and engineered more than 50 acquisitions by 2002. Applied's stock soared to more than $151 a share early in 2000, then collapsed with the bursting telecommunications and Internet bubbles. Mr. Silverman, a lawyer and consultant, was named president in 2002 to help streamline Mr. Sullivan's money-losing hodgepodge. He succeeded Mr. Sullivan as chief executive last year. In addition to its stake in Digital Angel, which is based in South St. Paul, Minn., Applied Digital controls 52 percent of InfoTech USA, a computer services and networking firm based in Fairfield, N.J., that was formerly known as SysComm International. All three have been losing money, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Silverman recently summed up Applied Digital's status as ''much closer than ever before to net income.'' There is nothing modest about Applied Digital's vision for VeriChip. The company's executives have told investors that VeriChip is addressing markets worth hundreds of billions of dollars. VeriChip, they have said, could become the theft- and loss-proof successor to the credit card, a device to monitor the whereabouts of children and mentally impaired adults and a tool to prevent anyone other than a police officer from using a gun issued to the officer. But Applied has not demonstrated that it is technically feasible for Veri-Chip-driven data systems to operate at the reliability levels needed in most of the financial, security and medical uses bandied about by the company's enthusiasts. To be sure, Digital Angel and competitors like AllFlex USA and Avid Identification Systems have been using similar implanted radio tags to permit pet shelters, laboratories and veterinarians to identify millions of animals. But the infrastructure investment that would be needed to have a major impact on VeriChip's intended human markets is far larger and more complex. It is also difficult to see how Veri-Chip would compete economically with other available technologies. None of the alternatives do everything VeriChip can, but biometrics, like face and iris scans or fingerprints, and radio tags embedded in smart cards or wristbands have a head start toward commercialization. Generally, they are also less expensive to deploy than VeriChip. So far, VeriChip's biggest success has been in Mexico, where several hundred Mexicans have enrolled in a version of the medical application that was approved by the F.D.A. in the United States. A smaller group, which includes Rafael Macedo de la Concha, Mexico's attorney general, were implanted with chips to control access to documents vital to the battle with drug traffickers. Mr. Silverman said the F.D.A. clearance would unlock the domestic medical business, which he said was VeriChip's best application. But the F.D.A. approval limits the chip to encoding a 16-digit identification. The chip cannot carry such basic data as blood type or organ donor instructions, and it is useless if the health care worker does not have the scanner and a computer or other means of accessing electronic records. The approval letter from the F.D.A. also contains ominous warnings about potential risks, like migration of the implanted chip and interference with magnetic resonance imaging device, which are widely used in hospitals. There is no evidence that such possibilities are problems with VeriChip, but critics hope such warnings will help scare off the big medical products companies that Applied Digital desperately needs to sign on as distributors. Given Applied Digital's complexity, some investors said that Digital Angel was a less risky way to invest in VeriChip's potential. Digital Angel owns the underlying technology, which it licenses to Applied Digital, and manufactures VeriChip along with its animal tracking devices. Applied Digital's license runs out in 2013, so even if VeriChip grows into a major product, Applied's grasp over its long-range returns may be shaky. Digital Angel's shares, which closed at $2.71 the day before the F.D.A. approval of VeriChip, ended trading Friday at $3.53. David Talbot, a portfolio manager for Healthvest Advisors, which first invested in Digital Angel three years ago, said new management installed at Digital Angel has steered the company toward profitability. Mr. Talbot said that he believed the animal tagging business alone was worth more than Digital Angel's current stock price. But when asked about relations between the Applied Digital companies, he added, ''I wish it wasn't so convoluted.'' New Economy"}