{"title": "NEWLY RELEASED", "body_text": "For cooks of all levels, some recent books offer new recipes for fall: The New Best Recipe  The Editors of Cook's Illustrated  Illustrated. 1,028 pages. America's Test Kitchen. $35. One thousand recipes from the kitchen nerds at Cook's Illustrated magazine, and further proof that practice makes perfect, if not transcendent. With recipes that have been subjected to dozens upon dozens of tests, there is little risk to making pad Thai or brisket the Cook's Illustrated way, and there is even a little reward: if an intermediate cook follows the directions exactly, the results will be better than takeout or mom's. The Gourmet Cookbook  Ruth Reichl  Illustrated. 1,040 pages. Houghton Mifflin. $40. A plus-sized compendium of the best recipes Gourmet has published since its inception in 1941. Even deadened by the nearly invisible yellow typography in the recipe headings, there is much to admire and cook here, particularly when it comes to Asian food, which the magazine has embraced to great effect in the past few years. Still, it is probably best to think of the book as ''How to Cook Everything Fancy.'' Which makes it a must-have for both the Viking-range set and anyone who aspires to the Epicurean ideal. Jamie's Dinners  Jamie Oliver  Illustrated. 321 pages. Hyperion. $34.95. His television persona may be closer to Alfie than Mr. C on ''Happy Days,'' but Jamie Oliver is at heart a family man, and there is nothing about his cooking that wouldn't please a child, grandmother or anyone else between. Gone at last (praise be!) is much of the mockney English slang that infected his earlier, also excellent efforts; what remains are his spectacularly well-styled photographs and enough good recipes to make Sunday nights at home with the kids the culinary equivalent of date night without them. Fast Food My Way  Jacques P\u00e9pin  Illustrated. 240 pages. Houghton Mifflin. $30. The food elite will tut-tut the master's occasional use of canned ingredients, skinless chicken breasts and microwave ovens. But Americans pressed for time after a long day at work, hellish lines at the market and a future full of more of the same may enjoy these simple, not simplistic, recipes: French food with only a hint of an accent now, basically American, just A-O.K. fine. SAM SIFTON"}