{"title": "From Page to Screen, an Impossibly Internal Novel", "body_text": "As ''Enduring Love'' enters a world of dark obsession, it lures viewers into a symbiotic dance between a stalker named Jed (the scruffy, blond, helpless-looking Rhys Ifans) and the man he is stalking, Joe (Daniel Craig as his opposite, a broodingly handsome, tough-minded intellectual). Yet this dynamic film is based on Ian McEwan's ambiguous, interior, apparently unadaptable novel. Just imagine all the bad movies that might have come from that. How the book became the film, without costing the novel its soul, is the story of a collaboration that doesn't even sound promising. There's a director who leaves few fingerprints, Roger Michell; a screenwriter best known as a playwright, Joe Penhall; and a novelist who realizes that, as Mr. McEwan put it in a phone conversation last week, ''translating a novel to film is an act of controlled vandalism.'' True, Mr. McEwan's 1997 novel has some splashy cinema-ready touches, like the stalker plot and the balloon accident that begins both the book and the film. Joe and Jed meet when they and a few other men try to bring down an out-of-control hot-air balloon with a small boy in its basket. Dangling by its ropes until they are forced to let go, the men drop into a field as the bright red balloon sails away and one of the good Samaritans falls to his death. The film (which opened on Friday in Manhattan and Los Angeles) makes the most of this visual drama. Yet at heart ''Enduring Love'' is a first-person novel about Joe's inner life. In the book, he tortures himself wondering whether he might have been the first to let go of the rope. His marriage crumbles under the weight of his agonizing about the accident and the stalker, a near stranger who loves him obsessively and believes Joe loves him too. Joe, a science writer, eventually diagnoses Jed's mental disorder and sees his ''pathological love'' as a ''dark, distorting mirror'' that might reveal its healthier counterpart, ''the nature of love itself.'' This lyrical observation offers a key to much of Mr. McEwan's fiction, in which aberrations like incest, sadomasochism and murder help explain the normal love most people seek. But the novel is loaded with problems for a screenwriter. One awful film version would have been talky and dull; another would have been nothing more than a slasher movie. Mr. McEwan had no interest in writing the script himself, although he was asked. He once spent three years of his life on the screenplay of another of his books, ''The Innocent,'' set in cold-war Berlin, only to see it become a tepid movie and a commercial failure (even if it did have Anthony Hopkins as the star and John Schlesinger as director). After that, he swore off adapting his own work. ''There's always a problem; you want to hug the book closely,'' he said of the novelist's impulse as screenwriter. ''I thought the best thing was to let Roger make it his.'' When Mr. Michell began developing the film several years ago, he was also directing Mr. Penhall's ''Blue/Orange'' at the National Theater in London. Although Mr. Penhall is scarcely known here, he is considered one of Britain's hot youngish playwrights. (He's 37.) ''Blue/Orange,'' which won a slew of awards in England, is set in a mental hospital, and an earlier play, ''Some Voices,'' dealt with the treatment of the mentally ill, so ''I'd inadvertently researched it quite well,'' Mr. Penhall said of ''Enduring Love.'' As Mr. Michell and Mr. Penhall reshaped the book, the questions they addressed amount to a handbook for literary adaptation. Some changes were tiny and practical: Joe's wife, Clarissa, a Keats scholar in the novel, in the movie became his girlfriend, Claire, a sculptor. Her new profession is more visual and her new name, ''more democratic'' as Mr. Penhall said. Joe became a teacher instead of a science writer, which gives him an excuse to lecture his students on the nature of love instead of talking to the reader. And the camera sticks almost exclusively to Joe's point of view, substituting for the first-person narrative. A bigger challenge, Mr. Penhall said, was deciding ''how to dramatize Joe's internal conflict.'' ''I thought the best way was to show how it manifested itself with his partner, Claire,'' he said, ''using things that are alluded to in the book -- how his relationship began to fall apart and how his behavior became more and more erratic.'' That shifted the emphasis away from Joe's questioning (philosophy and movies rarely go together) and onto his relationships with Claire and Jed, which the film captures in all their fraught and finally violent crisscrossings. In the past, Mr. Michell has often seemed the invisible director. ''Notting Hill,'' written by Richard Curtis, (who wrote and directed ''Love Actually'') seems like a Richard Curtis film. ''Changing Lanes, '' the Ben Affleck-Samuel L. Jackson thriller, could have been made by any of half a dozen competent directors in Hollywood. But in ''Enduring Love'' the confrontations are staged and the characters revealed with a visual eloquence missing from Mr. Michell's earlier work. Mr. McEwan, as associate producer, didn't entirely get out of the filmmakers' way. As they say in Hollywood, he gave notes. Among other things, he persuaded Mr. Penhall and Mr. Michell to restore Jed's religious obsession, which an early version of the screenplay had eliminated. Mr. Penhall said of Jed's religious fervor: ''I was nervous it might come across on film as a clich\u00e9.'' Jed's religion, milder on screen than in the novel, ''has a lovely strangeness now,'' Mr. Penhall added. ''He's not evangelical, not fire and brimstone. He believes in God's love.'' Yet Mr. McEwan knows that the film ''Enduring Love'' is not his. ''The role of the novelist mustn't be to hover around the project like its bad conscience,'' he said, an approach he has carried over to the film adaptation of his last book, ''Atonement.'' That novel may be even more difficult to translate because its plot about love and lies in the World War II era is wrapped in layers of storytelling. Richard Eyre is planning to direct the film and Christopher Hampton is writing the script. As Mr. McEwan said, offering as cool and astute an assessment of the novelist's role in movies as there is likely to be, ''There are only two reasons to adapt your own novel. One is to stop anyone else doing it, and the other is to get paid.'' CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK"}