{"title": "Lincoln's Assassin: A Portrait In Surprise", "body_text": "American Brutus  John Wilkes Booth And the Lincoln Conspiracies  By Michael W. Kauffman  Illustrated. 508 pages. Random House. $29.95. ''Sic semper tyrannis!'' is the battle cry forever linked to the man who assassinated President Abraham Lincoln at Ford's Theater in Washington. It is less traditional to remember John Wilkes Booth as a man who told his sister: ''Don't let us be sad. Life is so short -- and the world is so beautiful. Just to breathe is delicious.'' This is not to suggest that ''American Brutus,'' Michael W. Kauffman's forensically precise, eerily prescient account of Booth's activities, favors the killer's sensitive side. It simply indicates the extent to which Mr. Kauffman's portrait is surprising. It presents a canny, willful Booth who shaped a far-reaching plot and went to elaborate lengths to entrap his fellow conspirators -- ''a manipulator, not a pawn.'' And Booth's scheme, as this book intricately reconstructs it, involved much more careful, long-range calculation than has previously been acknowledged. Is there new information to be found here? No detail of the Lincoln assassination has been too minor to prompt historians' furor. Woe to the author who, like Jim Bishop in ''The Day Lincoln Was Shot,'' described the scene around Lincoln's deathbed and made the mistake of attributing tiptoeing to Corp. James Tanner, who lost his feet at the Battle of Bull Run. In this hotly contentious atmosphere, amid evidence that has been endlessly picked over, there may be no major revelations left to discover. But Mr. Kauffman seriously challenges conventional wisdom. He develops a different vantage point just by bringing present-day investigative tactics and perspective to events of the past. And he draws parallels with unsettling ease. He describes rampant terror, fears about biological warfare (a purported scheme to spread clothing carrying yellow fever) and angry invective aimed at the wartime president (''this man of yesterday, this Abraham Lincoln, that neither you nor I ever heard of four years ago,'' one senator said of him). He cites complaints that the secretary of state, William H. Seward, nearly killed in a grisly assault simultaneous with the shooting of Lincoln, secretly wielded more authority than the president did. He tells how the president's wartime legal measures impinged upon civil liberties and how especially unpopular that made him in Maryland, where much of Booth's plot was hatched. And he writes of the harsh treatment of prisoners. ''It is not easy to put aside the barbarous image of people in hoods and chains,'' he writes. ''Prisoners had not been treated that way since 1696 and would not be again until 2001.'' In revisiting this atmosphere, Mr. Kauffman brings a weird whiff of method acting to the biographer's role. ''It was an interactive affair and required personal involvement,'' says the writer, who participated in the burial of one last assassination artifact (a conspirator's skull, accidentally found in the Smithsonian) and has been giving guided bus tours of Booth's escape route for nearly 20 years. Whether or not it was essential for him to have followed Booth's path so closely (''I've even burned down a tobacco barn like the one in which Booth was trapped''), his attachment to this material is palpable. And it yields a riveting, newly immediate view of a nation in turmoil. While Booth is the book's central figure, he is by no means its only focus. To be sure, Mr. Kauffman gives full attention to the Booth family's history (including a joking threat by the patriarch, the actor Junius Brutus Booth, to kill his friend, President Andrew Jackson). And he demolishes the idea that John Wilkes Booth's unsuccessful acting career contributed to the bitterness that made him an assassin. In his view Booth was well reviewed, widely employed and as popular in Boston as he was in Confederate cities. He was also enough of a heartthrob to endanger handsome men throughout the nation. Many were summarily arrested and some even made victims of mob violence because in an age before instantly available photography, they were mistaken for Lincoln's killer. But ''American Brutus'' also re-examines Booth's plan for many subordinate figures -- most of whom, Mr. Kauffman says, thought they were participating only in a scheme to kidnap Lincoln and cooperated to avenge the treatment of captive Confederate soldiers. In addition to involving a surprisingly large group of people, the strategy also incorporated horses. The equine factor provides some of Mr. Kauffman's most startling insights into Booth's thinking. Horses rented from public stables were widely used by the conspirators. Mr. Kauffman demonstrates that these stables, rather than the boarding house of Mary Surratt (the first American woman to be given the death penalty), were the plotters' primary meeting places. And Booth apparently made sure that a long trail of horse-related evidence was public and visible. He did his best to implicate others to keep them from testifying against him, in accordance with the laws of that era. Indeed, ''President Andrew Johnson had been compromised by a small card left in his hotel mailbox, and the false impression it gave of intimacy with Booth would haunt him for the rest of his career.'' Taken individually, each such instance of ''suspicious'' behavior (as Mr. Kauffman annoyingly describes behavior that is suspect) is relatively small. But their combined effect is potent. It yields a vital, fascinating glimpse of American history at its most turbulent, and it transports the reader viscerally back to those frantic, uncertain times. These were the last moments when presidential assassination was unthinkable, when the White House needed guards only to keep tourists from stealing drapes, when a killer could gain access to his prey by presenting a calling card. Perhaps they were also the last moments when an assassin could regard his motives as strictly noble. That kind of innocence, like so many others, ended with Wilkes's lethal bullet. ''Useless. Useless.'' Those were his last and, if not best-remembered, still his most enduring words. BOOKS OF THE TIMES"}