{"title": "Japan Issues New Currency To Foil Forgers", "body_text": "For the first time in 20 years, Japan has redesigned its bank notes, issuing a pretty new series of bills on Monday that feature rabbit-ear irises, the first formal portrait of a woman on a Japanese bank note, and, of course, the requisite image of a snow-capped Mount Fuji, framed in cherry blossoms. Unlike the currency changes once common in South America's inflationary economies, no zeros were lopped off the notes of deflationary Japan. With one United States dollar now worth 106 yen, the new 1,000-yen note is worth $9.45, the new 5,000-yen bill is worth $47.27, and the new 10,000-yen note is worth $94.50. Ostensibly, the newly designed notes that will flood into A.T.M.'s this week were introduced to foil counterfeiters. In 1998, only 800 cases of forged yen notes were detected. But with home computers, printers and copiers becoming increasingly sophisticated, 14,000 fake bills were found in the first half of this year, the National Police Agency said. ''The main reason for issuing new bank notes is the prevention of bank note counterfeits,'' Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, said Monday at the Bank of Japan, the first visit there by a prime minister since 1986. ''This must make counterfeits difficult,'' he said after inspecting the new bills, which have holograms, watermarks and special inks. Counterfeiting probably costs Japan only $1 million a year in direct losses. Most fake bills, generally 1,000-yen notes, are swallowed by vending machines, Japan's ubiquitous mechanical purveyors of drinks and cigarettes. Introducing the new currency will cost hundreds of millions of dollars, partly to issue 10 billion new bank notes, and partly to modify the 1.8 million vending machines in Japan. The high cost suggests another agenda, which appears to be flushing out hidden money. The currency shift is an attempt to bring into the economy trillions of yen that Japan's elderly keep stashed at home. ''The trick in Japan is to unlock the mattress money, the futon money,'' Jesper Koll, chief economist for Merrill Lynch Japan, said. ''In Japan, coins and notes account for about 15 percent of national income, which compares to 6 percent in Germany and 3 to 3.5 percent in America.'' Until Japan's banking crisis hit a decade ago, 7 percent of the national income was held in cash. Now, with the banks increasingly stable, the government hopes to lure some of the $700 billion in mattress money into banks, or better yet into consumer spending and investments. The new 1,000-yen bill features Hideyo Noguchi, a scientist credited with isolating the bacteria that causes syphilis. The 5,000-yen bill has the portrait of Higuchi Ichiyo, a novelist of the late 19th century who wrote of the unhappy, restricted lives of Japanese women. She died of tuberculosis at age 24. The 10,000-yen note continues to use the image of Yukichi Fukuzawa, a 19th-century educator known as the founder of Keio University. Kyodo News said the new bills benefited from ''the world's most advanced printing technologies to prevent counterfeiting.'' But forgers may already be at work. Earlier this month, a stolen test print of the new 1,000-yen bill was briefly put up for auction on an Internet site. Although the old notes are to be withdrawn from circulation two years from now, there is no fixed date for their sunset as legal tender. Even so, Japanese authorities evidently hope that the prime minister's visit to the Bank of Japan will send a signal to people hoarding cash that they should turn in their money. About two-thirds of cash in Japan is held by people over 65 years old. The act of bringing cash to a bank may prompt some to spend it. ''I hope it will help put the economy on a firm recovery path,'' Mr. Koizumi said at the central bank Monday. Standing nearby, Toshihiko Fukui, the central bank governor, told reporters: ''I believe the new bank notes will lift people's spirits and contribute to forming a new, dynamic Japanese economic society.'' On Friday, the Bank of Japan predicted that prices would inch higher in 2005, ending the deflation that began in May 1998. But not all of Japan's cash hoarders are little old ladies who might be tempted to buy kimonos for their granddaughters. About 5 percent of the economy is believed to be operated off the books, either by tax evaders or by members of yakuza, or criminal mobs, to hide ill-gotten gains. ''Because there is so much cash out there in the underground economy, they may not want to trade it in for cash, they may want to buy things,'' Robert Alan Feldman, chief economist for Morgan Stanley Japan, said of the criminal cash hoarders. ''The problem is that there is no particular deadline to turn in your cash.'' Mr. Koll, another skeptic, said: ''You can play around with changing notes. But will the cash actually go into the economy or back into the mattress? That is the million-dollar question.''"}