{"title": "Volkswagen May Be Close To Settling Its Wage Talks", "body_text": "Volkswagen and its workers entered a critical week in their wage negotiations on Monday, with signs that a compromise was taking shape even as protests flared at factories across Germany. Volkswagen is demanding a two-year freeze in wages, in addition to concessions on a variety of work rules, as it tries to cut its labor costs nearly one-third by 2011. The union, IG Metall, originally asked for a 4 percent wage increase, but has trimmed that demand to 2 percent. Now, according to officials at Volkswagen, the gap may be narrowed further with a one-time payment to the workers. Representatives of each side spoke informally before sitting down Monday afternoon for a sixth round of talks in Hanover. ''These are the critical days if we are going to have a deal,'' said a spokesman for Volkswagen, Dirk Grosse-Leege. ''I would expect to see something this week, and sooner rather than later.'' The showdown is being closely watched, and not just because it pits Germany's most powerful union against its most prominent carmaker. The talks are viewed as a litmus test of whether German auto workers can preserve their privileges in the fiercely competitive global car industry. In a sign of how high the stakes are, the union has threatened large-scale strikes against Volkswagen if the talks do not produce an agreement this week. They would be the first in the company's history. The union is already flexing its muscles, with 15,000 workers staging protests at Volkswagen plants in Braunschweig, Kassel and Emden. On Tuesday, it plans to hold a warning strike at Volkswagen's flagship factory in Wolfsburg, which employs more than 50,000 people. While company representatives and union leaders are hinting at a compromise, the warm-up strikes have injected a combustible element into an already tense situation, according to labor experts. ''There are risks for both sides,'' said Michael Fichter, an expert in labor relations at the Free University of Berlin. ''The union is hierarchical. But there are an awful lot of members involved. Once the machinery starts, you can't always anticipate how things are going to turn out.'' The General Motors Corporation recently weathered a bitter six-day strike at one of its Opel plants here, after it announced plans to reduce its European work force by up to 12,000 jobs, most of them in Germany. IG Metall found itself sidelined as its members vented their rage at G.M. Volkswagen has been more oblique about the issue of job losses, saying that if it is not able to reduce its labor costs by $2.6 billion over six years, 30,000 jobs will theoretically be in jeopardy. But it has also offered its workers a guarantee of job security if they agree to its demands. In addition to a wage freeze, Volkswagen wants six other concessions -- including more flexibility in how it pays overtime, reduced health care benefits and a new policy on apprentices that would cost less and would give VW the option of not offering the apprentices permanent jobs. Volkswagen's labor contract is unique in German industry because it covers only the company's 103,000 assembly-line workers. Other contracts cover entire industries, and thus guarantee wage parity among employers. VW's workers are paid 20 percent more than other metal workers. They also work fewer hours. A decade ago, Volkswagen's chief negotiator, Peter Hartz, signed a deal with IG Metall that reduced the workweek to four days. He is leading the talks this time as well. The time provisions of Volkswagen's old contract were so generous, Mr. Fichter said, that some of its line workers trained as electricians or other craftsmen and more than a few of them moonlight in other jobs. ''There are people working there who could go out and start businesses of their own,'' he said. With Volkswagen reporting a 65 percent decline in profits last week, analysts say such generosity is no longer affordable. The company has felt enormous pressure to cut costs as it faces a stagnant home market and competition from the more efficient Japanese manufacturers. Moreover, Volkswagen owns factories in Slovakia and Hungary, where wages are a fraction of those in Germany. As the company decides where to produce new models, like a sports utility vehicle smaller than the existing Touareg, it is using that cost disparity as a bargaining chip. Volkswagen's supervisory board is scheduled to meet on Nov. 12 to discuss some of these production decisions. The union, which has representatives on the board, is eager to sign a deal before that meeting."}