{"title": "Daddy Dearest and Home (Call Me When He's Dead)", "body_text": "The playwright Barton Bishop is in treacherous, movie-of-the-week territory with ''God's Daughter,'' about a woman drawn back to her unhappy childhood home when her father reaches the final stages of Alzheimer's disease. But the drama, being given its world premiere by the Abingdon Theater, sidesteps smarminess with sharp performances and unflinching dialogue, delivering a jolt that is usually absent from this increasingly overworked genre. Anne DuPont is refreshingly blunt as Cori Archer, who, as the play opens, is estranged from her aged father, a former preacher. How estranged? When the phone rings with bad news about his health, she tells the caller: ''He's not dead, is he? When he dies, call me.'' Yet she finds herself heading south to Florida from New York to see the old man, nicely played by Jim Ireland. We see glimpses of her childhood, including a pivotal episode in which her father, preaching a fundamentalist-sounding breed of Christianity, held her up as a bad example in front of the entire congregation. ''God's Daughter,'' though, is no feel-good tale of reconciliation. In Florida, Cori clashes with a neighbor (Susanne Marley) who after the death of Cori's mother became her father's housemate and caretaker and perhaps more. And her father's sad condition does not melt Cori's heart the way it would in a more amateurish work. In fact, it seems to focus her hatred. ''I love seeing you like this: pathetic, helpless,'' she tells him as part of a shockingly caustic rant, though in the haze of Alzheimer's he seems unaffected. There is some healing before the play is through, but under Alex Dmitriev's deft direction it is left subtle and ambiguous. ''God's Daughter'' emerges not as the expected story of mended fences, but as one woman's struggle to vanquish personal demons. Through Nov. 21; at the June Havoc Theater, 312 West 36th Street. THEATER REVIEW Correction:  November 4, 2004, Thursday  A theater review on Tuesday about ''God's Daughter,'' at the June Havoc Theater in Manhattan, misidentified the actor who plays the father. He is Peter Brouwer; Jim Ireland plays other characters."}