{"title": "In One Tent, Toulouse-Lautrec And a Beret-Wearing Clown", "body_text": "Amazing feats account for the cheers and applause filling the little big top that blossoms like a perennial each autumn in Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center. The tent is home to the Big Apple Circus, and, in its 27th season, the troupe founded by Paul Binder and Michael Christensen has come up with a winning, eye-filling new production, ''Picturesque.'' Combining an array of admirable circus skills with a salute to the visual arts, this show, directed by Michel Barette, pays tribute, as Mr. Binder put it the other night, ''to artists who have been inspired by the circus.'' So here among others in the costumes by Mirena Rada and the scenic design of Dan Kuchar are Degas' ballerinas, Picasso's harlequins, Magritte's bowler-hatted men, Toulouse-Lautrec and the cancan dancers of Montmartre. And, in the spirit of the entertainment, even Grandma (Barry Lubin), the Big Apple's ever-popular signature clown, may be seen under an artist's beret flourishing a palette and painter's brush. But more than scenery and costumes dazzles the eye. Take, for example, Picaso Jr., the flabbergasting fellow who manages to juggle five Ping-Pong-size balls blown from his mouth. Or the animal trainer Svetlana Shamsheeva, who could teach diplomats a thing or two because she has taught cats and dogs to work in harmony, and cats and birds, too. Doubters can find proof at the Big Apple, where, among other marvels of Ms. Shamsheeva's two appearances, a cat rides the back of a dog and a cat and a bird are partners in a high-wire act. Also demanding to be seen to be believed are the 13-member Kovgar troupe. Not content with the risk of high-flying acrobatics launched from teeterboards, these daredevils do some of their somersaulting stunts on stilts. In the great tradition of Chinese circus, GuiMing Meng takes the juggling of ceramic jars, one bigger and heavier than another, to the loftiest levels of expertise. Along with these highlights come pleasures like the graceful trapeze work of the Mongolian Angels, the supple, balletic strength of the hand balancer Mei Ling and the well-trained Arabian horses of Yasmine Smart. And the list of performers is not complete. Spicing the performance, too, are plenty of clowning and lively music. From any viewpoint, ''Picturesque'' is a joy to behold. Performances by the Big Apple Circus continue through Jan. 9. CIRCUS REVIEW"}