{"title": "Buffoons in the Bureaucracy and Death on the Doorstep", "body_text": "In 2002, newly arrived as the general manager of the San Francisco Opera, Pamela Rosenberg presented the long-overdue American stage premiere of Messiaen's ''St. Fran\u00e7ois d'Assise,'' an enthralling production of a visionary five-hour masterpiece by one of the colossal composers of the 20th century. That production afforded one of the great nights of my operagoing life. With the company's production of Gyorgy Ligeti's black comedy ''Le Grand Macabre,'' which opened on Friday, Ms. Rosenberg has presented the American premiere of another bracing contemporary opera that has been neglected in the United States, though it has been seen in more than a dozen European cities since its premiere in 1978 in Stockholm. Mr. Ligeti, 81, was said not to be well enough to travel from Europe for the opening night. The boldly modern production from the Royal Danish Opera, directed by Kasper Bech Holten, and the performance of the San Francisco singers and orchestra made a compelling case for this unconventional work. Though there were empty seats about the house, the audience, with notable numbers of festive Bay Area residents arrayed in exotic Halloween costumes, responded with a prolonged ovation. The audience reaction is important to note, because with her passion for contemporary opera Ms. Rosenberg is not just acting on principle. She strongly believes in the theatrical impact and musical richness of works like Mr. Ligeti's opera, and she is right. Mr. Ligeti, born in Budapest, came of age within the culturally restricted confines of a Soviet-bloc country. Paradoxically, his isolation may have benefited him, for when he left Hungary in 1956 and immersed himself in European modernism, he was open to everything and suspicious of dogma. His music embraces all manner of styles and techniques, but in his own ingenious way. For ''Le Grand Macabre,'' his only opera, Mr. Ligeti's source was a play by Michel de Ghelderode, an apocalyptic romp. Mr. Ligeti wrote the libretto with Michael Meschke. Set, as Mr. Ligeti has put it, ''in the run-down but nevertheless carefree and thriving principality of Bruegelland in an 'anytime' century,'' the story is peopled by peasants, exotic creatures and buffoonish government officials. The main characters include Piet the Pot, a professional wine taster who is always tipsy; Amando and Amanda, an oblivious pair of lovers; Astradamors, an eccentric court astronomer who suffers the abuse of his bullying wife; and the ineffectual and infantile Prince Go-Go. The principality is racked with dread when, in the opening scene, Nekrotzar, the sinister ''Grand Macabre'' of the title, arises from a grave to announce that he is death incarnate and has come to destroy the world that very night. The original German libretto was translated into Swedish for the premiere, and Mr. Ligeti has requested that the work always be performed in the language of the audience. (This production uses an English translation by Geoffrey Skelton.) It is essential for the audience to follow the libretto, because the opera includes a lot of talking, though not as much as it originally did. Mr. Ligeti, feeling that there was too much shouting in the opera, cut dialogue and added music, finally settling on the 1996 version presented here. The risk with Mr. Ligeti's chatty approach to opera is that the music will seem like some raucous background score to a bleakly comic drama, a quality emphasized in this production with the cartoon imagery of Steffen Aarfing's sets and the madcap pacing of Mr. Holten's direction. With all the zany surface energy of Mr. Ligeti's score, it would be easy to let the sophistication and richness of the music slip by. The work opens with a mini-overture for 12 honking car horns, all specifically pitched. The overture is a perfect palindrome; played forward or backward, the music sounds the same. As the opera continues, your ear is caught by bursts of modernistic bedlam and wildly scored convolutions in the orchestra, which is dominated by percussion instruments. But ruminative and beguiling episodes keep coming, like the wistfully ethereal love duet for Amando and Amanda and a transfixing and harmonically hazy quintet in Scene 2. The conductor, Michael Boder, drew an incisive, vividly colored and wonderfully brash account of the score from the orchestra. The bass-baritone Willard White, who triumphed in the title role of ''St. Fran\u00e7ois'' two years ago, was equally compelling as the maniacal Nekrotzar. Standouts in the strong cast included the tenor Graham Clark as Piet the Pot, the bass Clive Bayley as the sniveling Astradamors, the countertenor Gerald Thompson as the glutinous and pasty-faced Prince Go-Go, and the mezzo-soprano Sara Fulgoni and the soprano Anne-Sophie Duprels as the insatiable lovers Amando and Amanda. Nekrotzar's plan to destroy fizzles humiliatingly. The opera ends with an intricate passacaglia in which the principals, eventually joined by the chorus, state the work's quizzical ''moral.'' ''Fear not to die,'' the text begins; you don't know when your time will come, so in the face of death, chaos and corruption you might as well make love, embrace the day and live merrily. ''Le Grand Macabre'' will be repeated at the San Francisco Opera on Friday and on Nov. 9, 13, 18 and 21. OPERA REVIEW"}