{"title": "Some Flash For a Gem Before Bach", "body_text": "Andrew Manze has been making unusually pointed, vital recordings of the Baroque violin repertory in recent years and has visited New York several times as a soloist and with British period-instrument ensembles that he directs from the fiddle. For seven years (1996-2003) his band was the Academy of Ancient Music, one of the great British ensembles formed in the 1970's. But last year Mr. Manze moved to the English Concert, which in the 1970's and 80's was the academy's most direct rival, and on Sunday afternoon he led his new band in a program of Mozart, Schmelzer and plenty of Vivaldi at Alice Tully Hall. Mr. Manze's style is flashier and more vigorous than that of his predecessor, Trevor Pinnock, the group's founder. But Mr. Pinnock, a harpsichordist, could hardly hop around as much as a violinist can. Mr. Manze uses that purely physical freedom considerably: there is no mistaking his downbeat, which sometimes involves a twist toward the players behind him and a slight, deft shuffle that would do a rock guitarist proud. The group now also plays standing (except its cellists, bassist and harpsichordist) and wears open-necked shirts in electric blue and purple. Mr. Manze's interpretive style is different as well. To borrow terms from the Supreme Court, Mr. Pinnock was a strict constructionist, intent on delivering the letter of the score directly and clearly, and Mr. Manze is an activist, willing to reshape a work to suit an interpretive goal. His trim, energetic ''Eine Kleine Nachtmusik'' (K. 525) was driven by adventurous tempo manipulations and big dynamic contrasts. Two Vivaldi Violin Concertos -- one in E (RV 271) and one in C minor (RV 202) -- were also aggressively shaped, with bristling, dynamically fluid allegros. Mr. Manze was the soloist, and he was at his best in the singing lines of the slow movements. The program also included a Vivaldi Concerto for Four Violins in B minor (RV 580), for which Mr. Manze was joined by Walter Reiter, Miles Golding and Rodolfo Richter. The real find on this program, though, was an odd gem from the German pre-Bach Baroque, the Serenata Con Altre Arie by Johann Heinrich Schmelzer. It is rich in characterizations, with the second of its five movements a vivid portrait of Harlequin and the last a lament with tolling bells evoked by the strings in repeated tones. The work also showed this ensemble at its tightest and most persuasive. The English Concert appears tomorrow at Symphony Center in Chicago. MUSIC REVIEW"}