{"title": "Isn't It How You Play The Game? Not Losing?", "body_text": "Producers over at the sicko makeover shows, ABC's ''Extreme Makeover'' and ''The Swan'' on Fox, may now snicker at NBC's high-minded new entry, ''The Biggest Loser.'' Sure, it was understandable that NBC would try to capitalize on the moral backlash against slasher beauty programs -- the kind with bone saws -- to produce a reality contest that rewards participants for losing weight ''the old school way,'' as the comedian Caroline Rhea puts it in her uninspired turn as host. We all know it's righteous to force people to diet strictly and exercise tirelessly. But has no one at the network ever been on a diet? Diets are depressing, boring, repetitive -- and marked by eventless phases during which no weight comes off. You're hungry and tired and nothing changes. Somebody thought this would be exciting to watch? After only two weeks of ''The Biggest Loser,'' viewers may already miss the likes of Dr. Jon Perlman of ''Extreme Makeover,'' with his unnatural eyelids, trim figure, humming saw and spectacular results. If only all weight could be water weight. That's what the producers of the new show must have thought after last week's episode. Water weight, whatever that is, is known for being dramatic; it comes off fast. On the first episode of ''The Biggest Loser,'' it came off in great ooh-and-ah-inspiring gobs -- like 22 pounds in seven days, which is what Matt lost -- that really lit up the gargantuan scale in the episode's big reveal. (The show divides heavyweights into two teams: after working out and dieting for a week, the teams weigh in, and the one that has lost the least weight collectively is required to vote off a teammate.) The big numbers, combined with the novelty of seeing advanced cases of gynecomastia flaunted on national television, were remarkable. Also interesting were the evident difficulty and sincerity of the effort -- a graphic reminder that body weight is less tractable than dieters must perforce believe. But then plateaus were hit. Back up on the Stairmaster, out for their early jogs, home to the skimpy meals, pushups, crunches, weights, more cardio, nothing to eat. It looked sickening. The dieters appeared to work harder that week than they had in the first one. And yet, when it was time to board the giant scale -- which, with its oversized L.E.D. display, suitable for Times Square, is the stuff of nightmares -- the numbers just weren't there. People lost seven or three pounds, and they were the big victors. Dave, at 240 pounds, lost nothing; neither did Maurice at 423. Matt even gained three pounds, which made the assembly cry. Each team has its own coach, and these coaches are meant to represent schools of thought. Jillian is the Puritan figure: unforgiving, unrelenting, contemptuous of gluttony and laziness. She coaches the red team, and feeds them fiber and protein in miniature portions. Bob, the blue-team coach, is maternal. He has an appealing notion that people must eat more to lose weight. This might be a suggestive split, if ''The Biggest Loser'' can find a way to use it to enliven the flatlining weight-loss narrative, shifting the show's focus from the capricious numbers to what is most reliable on reality television: the squabbles and the proto-romances. To a one, the contestants are good-looking; they have evidently been chosen so that, less 50 pounds or so, they will be knockouts. Several, predictably, are described in their online bios as funny and charismatic. (Come on, just say it: they're jolly.) But with the especially attractive Dana and Lizzeth eliminated -- their teams determined that they were already too slim, at 170 and 164 respectively, to contribute much to the final tally of pounds lost -- team members ought to check out who's left. They should form some alliances and make some passes. The show needs divided loyalties. Contestants should be torn between, say, who should be eliminated for the good of the team and who should be eliminated because they are romantic competition. But maybe drama is not what this series, which skips tonight because of the presidential elections, is about. Maybe it is genuinely about diet and exercise -- the slow, tortuous way to self-knowledge, if not slimness. That's a principled approach, but viewers will not stick with it. As in dieting, so in diet television. After a week or two, it's just too easy to abandon fiber and daylong workouts in favor of something that looks more fun. Like suction lipectomy. Like abdominoplasty. CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK"}