{"title": "New Salvo Is Fired In Mommy Wars", "body_text": "If any book tempts readers to judge its contents by the cover, it is ''Home-Alone America,'' whose jacket photograph shows Mom leaving for work in her power suit and pumps as Junior clings desperately to her ankle. Any passions left uninflamed might be stirred by the book's subtitle: ''The Hidden Toll of Day Care, Behavioral Drugs and Other Parent Substitutes.'' That seems to label it as another book bashing working mothers, blaming them for the ills of society and condemning them for putting their happiness above that of their children. Not so, says Mary Eberstadt, the author of ''Home-Alone America,'' being published this week by Sentinel, an imprint of Penguin Group USA that focuses on conservative viewpoints. ''This isn't a finger-pointing book,'' she said in an interview. ''It's not a blaming book. It's an attempt to deliver what I know to be an out-of-the-box examination of a serious social question. That question is, why do kids today have serious problems that their parents' generation and their grandparents' generation did not?'' Authors on both the left and the right have produced scores of books in recent years that either laud motherhood as the greatest profession or insist that mothers are able to provide substantive role models for their children only by working outside the home. What Mrs. Eberstadt says makes ''Home-Alone America'' different is that it looks not at mothers or fathers or work or other grown-up concerns; rather, she says, it looks at what is happening to children: obesity, high rates of teen pregnancy and sexually transmitted disease, and the rapidly growing use of psychiatric medications even among very young children. ''I'm trying to move the spotlight,'' she said. ''I'm making an honest effort to get the adults off the stage.'' She also stresses that she does not want to cast blame for those problems on working mothers. ''Half the book,'' she said, ''is about what happens when you take Dad out of the house, whether through unwed motherhood or divorce.'' Whether her approach and arguments are truly different or are a more strident version of previous books on parenthood and children is an open question. What is certain is that Sentinel, the publisher, is hoping that ''Home-Alone America'' draws the kind of attention that often accompanies books published by Regnery, the king of conservative publishers. Certainly many experts on parenthood -- not to mention many mothers -- could dispute that a mother's working outside the home is any way comparable to a father's abandonment of the family. ''There's no perfect answer to any of these problems,'' said Dr. Leon Hoffman, director of the Parent-Child Center at the New York Psychoanalytic Society. It is all but impossible to generalize about the causes of behavioral problems and conditions like obesity, Dr. Hoffman said, because of all the variables at play with child, parent and environment. ''Home-Alone America'' certainly presents a stark picture of American youth. Citing sources as varied as ''The Maury Povich Show'' and the Journal of the American Medical Association, Mrs. Eberstadt documents rapidly rising rates of obesity among children (although she focuses more on those rates than on the actual percentage of children who are seriously overweight). She presents disturbing statistics about the growth in the use of psychiatric drugs to treat attention deficit disorder and hyperactivity. And she includes familiar but still troubling figures on teen pregnancy and the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. Mrs. Eberstadt's book attempts to link these problems to absent parents. Obesity, she writes, is in large part the product of a lack of supervision when children return every afternoon to empty homes or are mollified by sugary snacks in day care or at after-school programs. So many children are medicated, she says, because parents spend less time with them, and therefore do not know how children really behave. And while they are unsupervised, teenagers, not surprisingly, are sometimes having sex. ''Over the past few decades, more and more children have spent considerably less time in the company of their parents or other relatives, and numerous fundamental measures of their well-being have simultaneously gone into what once would have been judged scandalous decline,'' Mrs. Eberstadt writes. ''It is the argument of this book that the connection between those facts cannot possibly be dismissed as coincidence.'' Other authors who have studied parenting and its effects raise questions about whether the connection that Mrs. Eberstadt makes between these problems and absent parents is quite so clear. Take obesity, for example. ''A lot of devoted, around-the-clock parents take their kids regularly to McDonald's,'' said Ann Crittenden, the author of ''The Price of Motherhood: Why the Most Important Job in the World Is Still the Least Valued.'' If such a link were so clear, she argues, obesity rates should be much lower in families with stay-at-home mothers. And while Ms. Crittenden agreed that the use of psychiatric drugs is too frequent among adolescents and children, she said she has seen little evidence to connect that usage to working parents. Mrs. Eberstadt, a Washington-based research fellow for Stanford's Hoover Institution, says she recognizes that many mothers have to work out of economic necessity. ''But this is a book for people who have choices,'' she said. ''Any one family might be fine participating in the trends mentioned in the book. But if you step back from that individual family and look at society as a whole, I think you see that some people aren't fine. Some kids in day care do just great. Some kids in day care have problems because of day care. I think we can open an honest conversation about these things.'' A child of divorced parents, Mrs. Eberstadt expressed surprise when it was suggested that readers are likely to wonder about how her own children fare when she is working. She addresses that subject in her book's introduction. ''Three of my children are in school all day long and the youngest is on the verge of it,'' she writes. ''I have a part-time paid babysitter who is upstairs while I'm down,'' where she maintains her home-office, ''a husband who often works at home, and older children who also help with the youngest one.'' Again, she added, the book is as much about the effects of divorce as about working mothers. ''Some families divorce and the kids turn out fine,'' she said. ''Some families divorce and the kids are miserable and develop serious problems. I'm not generalizing about any individual situation or any particular family. I'm saying step back and look at the scene as a whole.'' To emphasize that fathers are as much the culprits in these trends as mothers, she notes that the back cover of the book features another photo, this one of a father leaving for work, with a child clinging to his ankle. ''Maybe for the paperback we can flip the pictures around if that would make people happier,'' she said. But Mrs. Eberstadt does not apologize, either for the assertions in her book or for the cover photographs. ''What this does is grasp the key feature of the book, which is to focus on that child's phenomenological experience,'' she said of the pictures. ''The eminence of what is happening to him at that particular moment, that is the focus that has been missing from this debate. That's why I dwell on the immediate emotional experience of some kids in day care. ''In every chapter of the book,'' she added, ''I'm trying to get at the immediate experience of these problems and what they mean for today's kids.''"}