{"title": "The Long-Distance Treasure Hunt; Behind the Met's 'Golden Age' Exhibition, Many Miles of Travel Through China", "body_text": "Ximude, the director of the Jerim League Museum in Tongliao, a city in Inner Mongolia, was perplexed by the American visitor's strange interests. Why was he mesmerized by tiny objects that Ximude didn't find all that significant -- a three-inch-long gold pendant in the shape of a crouching horse, or the miniature plaque, 21/2 by 4 inches, showing a female figure flanked by two animals? ''After we look at these, I'll take you hunting,'' he told the American. ''That's much more fun.'' But his visitor, James C.Y. Watt, a curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, had no time to play. He was on another kind of hunting expedition, scavenging vast areas of China for remnants of the historical period that would eventually be illuminated in ''China: Dawn of a Golden Age, 200-750 A.D.,'' which opened last month at the Met. Behind this prodigious exhibition is a story of curatorial obsession and adventure, as well as a glimpse at how China's internal bureaucracy has subtly opened up recently, at least vis-\u00e0-vis the art world. American specialists found their Chinese museum counterparts accessible in a way that would have been unheard of just a few years earlier. On that monthlong trip, taken in 1998, Mr. Watt -- who would become chairman of the museum's Asian art department in 2000 -- traveled alone to 15 cities by train, car and airplane. Well, alone except for the five or six days he spent with Chen Kun, director of the Guyuan Museum, who on a whim drove Mr. Watt hundreds of miles in his Chinese-brand Volkswagen car at breakneck speed to tiny museums in obscure cities. Mr. Chen's chief curator went along for the ride, talking shop with Mr. Watt in the back seat or over lamb served up in a roadside tent in the autonomous region of Ningxia, populated mainly by Muslims. Slender and bookish, Mr. Watt, 68, doesn't automatically bring to mind Indiana Jones, especially when he's sitting in a three-piece suit in his orderly office at the Met, speaking rapturously about the Roman influence evident in a gilt bronze cup decorated with figures and a grapevine. But his trek to remotest China was crucial to his ambitious quest: to use archaeological artifacts to illustrate how China, during the Tang dynasty in the seventh and eighth centuries, absorbed influences from all over the world, synthesized them and created a new multiethnic Chinese culture. While many of the objects are small, the scope of the exhibition was always grand, in both its concept and its logistics. Surprisingly, it was inspired not by scholarly meditation on ancient China, but by a newcomer's impression of New York, circa mid-1980's. From the time Mr. Watt moved to the city 19 years ago, he was struck by how his new home seemed to be a microcosm of international living that for him echoed a different time, a different place. ''I realized that New York is like eighth-century China,'' he said. ''Nobody is a stranger, just as nobody was a stranger in the capital of China in the Tang dynasty.'' The thought of an exhibition did not occur until much later, when Philippe de Montebello, the museum's director, approached him and Wen C. Fong, then chairman of the Asian art department, in 1997 about doing a China show. The Metropolitan had put on \"Splendors of Imperial China\" the year before, but that blockbuster consisted of objects borrowed from Taiwan. The museum hadn't had a Chinese China exhibition since 1980, but other museums were staking out the territory. Mr. de Montebello couldn't help but notice that a few blocks away the Solomon R. Guggenheim was putting together a huge show for 1998, ''China: 5000 Years.'' ''I said, 'Do you want a big one or a modest one?''' Mr. Watt recalls asking. Mr. de Montebello replied, ''Big one!'' A few months later Mr. Watt set out on that initial scouting trip, armed with notebooks, a camera and a suitcase full of gifts, mainly ties decorated with images of the Statue of Liberty. He returned with three thick albums filled with photographs of some 1,000 objects and dozens of ties he received as gifts from his Chinese hosts (''mostly unwearable,'' he said). That was only the beginning. After his trip, Mr. Watt returned to his books, seeking the historical trail that would connect the archaeological markers. He read for two years. He enlisted a team of longtime colleagues from Russia, New York and China who were experts in metalwork, numismatics, glass, textiles and Buddhist art. It would take several visits by each of them, together and separately, scouting storage rooms and exhibition halls, to finally settle on the 247 works -- 350 if you count multiple parts -- now on display. In all, 46 lending institutions were involved, including the Palace Museum in Beijing as well as archaeological institutions in the boondocks of China. Mr. Watt was not averse to including larger-than-life objects: the show's grand finale is a carving of a giant Buddha, nearly eight feet tall. But he was preoccupied with items that would indicate how other cultures -- Central Asian, Roman, Persian, Hellenistic, nomadic -- had infiltrated the everyday fixations of the Chinese (mainly the upper classes) through custom and style: how they decorated themselves, their tombs and their homes; what they drank out of; what they wore; the stories they told; how they prayed. Evidence of such influences might crop up in the fold of a drape, a statue's facial features, a textile design. Above all, he was looking for the melting-pot ingredients that made it possible, during the Tang dynasty, for a Turk to achieve the top position in China's civil and military service, and for intermarriage between nomadic peoples and Chinese. This ancient story was, for him, rooted in the present in more ways than one. Major construction in China over the past 30 years has turned the country into one big archaeological site. More than 100 of the works in the show were unearthed in this period. ''It is almost impossible to dig anywhere in China without finding something; even if you have a little plot of land behind your house, you can't do gardening without this stuff spilling out,'' Mr. Watt said. He regularly monitored new discoveries by reading archaeological journals from China, including some posted on the Internet. (An assistant downloads them; Mr. Watt doesn't know how to turn his Met computer on.) It was by reading these archaeological abstracts that he discovered, for example, the tiny objects from the second, third and fourth centuries that so fascinated him at the little Jerim League Museum in Inner Mongolia. While those pieces were unearthed in 1984 and 1990, other, even newer archaeological finds gave the show a sense of immediacy. Eight pieces excavated since 2000 were added to the exhibition at the last minute. Some of the show's finest objects turned up in the strangest places. Angela F. Howard, a professor at Rutgers University and Mr. Watt's consultant in Chinese Buddhist art, made three trips for the exhibition, always traveling within China with a longtime colleague, Li Chongfeng, chairman of the archaeology department at Beijing University. To look at a stunning sarcophagus from the sixth century that was excavated in 1999, she had to visit the local police station in Taiyuan, in Shanxi Province. ''It had been placed there for fear it would be stolen and taken out of the country,'' she said. In Sichuan Province, she had to contend with monks who didn't want their exquisite standing bodhisattvas to leave the temple where they were on display. (Beijing officials intervened on the museum's behalf, and the statues made it to New York.) Mr. Watt, born and brought up in Hong Kong, has visited China frequently over the years. ''Before, it was impossible to travel so quickly because of the bureaucracy,'' he said. ''It was very tense and not so easy to have access even among colleagues. You had to go through these different steps first.'' ''Now,'' he said, ''you just go.'' Still, he added, he did have to stop in Beijing first to check in with the State Administration of Cultural Heritage. ''Not so much for clearance as notification,'' he said, though government approval is still required for all foreign loans. The Guggenheim Museum's big China exhibition in 1998 required considerable behind-the-scenes machinations, including the intervention of Henry A. Kissinger (who is also trustee emeritus of the Metropolitan Museum). Mr. Watt suggested that the Met's grass-roots approach made a difference. ''A lot of people do go around China with an entourage,'' he said. ''I went by myself. We were talking to our own colleagues. We never, from beginning to end, we never touched any branch of the political structure.'' Yet Mr. Watt acknowledged that he and his team had also benefited from changes within China that accelerated at the end of the 1990's and have since become more apparent. ''There's much greater awareness of the need to be open to the outside world generally, and much greater relaxation within China, and much greater willingness to listen to professional as opposed to ideological reasons,'' he said. That view is echoed by Kimerly Rorschach, director of the Nasher Museum of Art at Duke University. Until recently, Ms. Rorschach was director at the Smart Museum of the University of Chicago, which this summer organized an exhibition of works by contemporary Chinese artists with the International Center of Photography in Manhattan. When she assembled a 1999 exhibition of contemporary Chinese art at the Smart Museum, she said, ''It was almost impossible to go through government channels.'' ''It was hard to bring works out and also very difficult to return them,'' she said. ''I would say that since 1999, that's pretty much gone away. The suspicion and the difficulties, all that has really evaporated.'' That despite the Beijing government's secretive attitude toward its political deliberations and its tendency to chafe at or retaliate for open criticism in the news media. It helped that the Met show did not focus on paintings and frescoes, objects that the Chinese can be particularly sticky about -- mainly for reasons of preservation rather than politics, Mr. Watt said. At least one case required personal intervention by Mr. de Montebello with the State Administration of Cultural Heritage. The Chinese government has a general policy against lending paintings predating the 12th century because of their fragility. But Mr. Watt really wanted a painted lacquer screen from the fifth century depicting virtuous women and obedient sons, whose subject and style reflected how one region's artists influenced another's. Mr. de Montebello convinced the state agency that these were not paintings, really, but archaeological finds and therefore exempt. For Mr. Watt, such glitches were a small part of a knotty task that he found remarkably painless, considering that it required the collaboration of so many specialists and institutions in far-flung places. ''In many ways,'' he said, ''it was the smoothest exhibition I've ever worked on.''"}