{"title": "A New Adventure in a Blink of an Eye", "body_text": "I travel to Asia at least twice a month and have become a pro at sleeping on planes. Sometimes that can be a problem. On one late-night flight to Hong Kong, I slept through a six-hour takeoff delay. When we landed in Vancouver for a stopover, I had no idea why it was daylight when it should have been dark. Another time, on a flight from Jakarta to Bangkok, I fell asleep on takeoff and didn't hear the pilot announce that the plane had to return to the airport because of engine trouble. I woke up three hours later and was mystified as to why we were still in Jakarta. Public transportation of any kind can be a challenge. Several years ago, I had an important presentation to give in Bangkok. The morning of the meeting, the car and driver I had reserved weren't there, so I jumped into a taxi, gave the driver the address and became engrossed in my papers. When the driver stopped the car, I looked up and saw nothing but rice paddies. The driver didn't understand English, so I used hand signals to make him turn around and speed back into the city. I had him drop me off at the first hotel we came to, got another cab and arrived at the meeting 45 minutes late. About six years ago, working late in my hotel room in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, I used my portable bubble jet printer to write letters to 50 individuals on our company letterhead to confirm meetings in Jakarta the following week. At 1 a.m., I asked the front desk to fax them separately to the number listed on each page. When the faxes were returned to my room less than an hour later, I looked at the single confirmation sheet and realized that all 50 had been sent to the executive whose name appeared on the first one. I was so mad that I had the front desk employee call the hotel's general manager at home and wake him up in the middle of the night. He apologized profusely, and in turn, I apologized to the man who received the 50 faxes. He was not amused that my ''personalized'' request for a meeting with him was identical to the other 49, except for his name. I've also had my share of fashion faux pas because of my crazy travel schedule. Once the hotel cleaners mixed up two suits and put the jacket from the first suit on a hanger with the pants from the second suit. I got dressed quickly that morning and didn't notice and wore a dark green suit jacket and black pants to that client meeting. I should be used to surprises by now, but there was that memorable meal in Kota Kinabalu, Sabah, Malaysia. It was a hot day, and a client took me to an outdoor restaurant. I was dripping from the heat -- and from the hot, spicy food -- and trying to look normal. Then the waiter served us yet another dish. I realized after a few minutes that the bowl was an upside-down turtle shell. It took me another few minutes to realize I was eating turtle. But at least I got fed at that meal. One client took me to a restaurant in Shenzhen, China, that served only snake. I said I was still full from lunch. BUSINESS TRAVEL: FREQUENT FLIER"}