{"title": "When a Pat-Down Seems Like Groping", "body_text": "Rhonda L. Gaynier, a New York lawyer, is hopping mad because, she says, getting on an airplane these days means being groped by a stranger. According to her and others, groping of airline passengers has increased since the Transportation Security Administration issued new guidelines recently requiring checkpoint screeners to conduct more frequent, and more intimate, pat-downs. Reactions have been strong, especially from women. ''Listen, I don't particularly like it when my doctor gives me a breast exam, O.K.?'' said Ms. Gaynier, who is 46. ''And now I'm supposed to accept a breast exam, in public, at the airport? Next time I'll drive rather than flying.'' The new T.S.A. policy went into effect Sept. 22. The policy states, in part, ''Additional screening, including pat-down searches, may be required of passengers based on visual observations by screeners, even if the audible alarm has not gone off.'' Another provision states, ''T.S.A. policy is that screeners are to use the back of the hand when screening sensitive body areas, which include the breasts (females only), genitals and buttocks.'' Ms. Gaynier, one of dozens of female passengers nationally who have been taking their objections about the new policy to the news media, said that she had not been selected for a secondary screening for years, until Oct. 19. Then, at Tampa International Airport while en route home to New York on a standard round-trip ticket purchased on American Airlines, she was directed to stand aside -- rudely, she said -- for a random secondary screening. Next, ''I had to step over to an area where they have a mat on the floor with footprints on it,'' she said. ''The screener does more of the wand thing, but then she starts patting me down. She puts a hand under my armpit and then up over my shoulder.'' ''What are you doing?'' Ms. Gaynier asked. ''Well, ma'am, this is our new screening procedure,'' came the reply. ''Since when? You did the wand thing, you went through my bag and didn't find anything. Why are you touching me like this?'' She said this got the attention of a supervisor, who told her: ''You have to do the screening or you can't get on your flight.'' Ms. Gaynier dug in and argued. ''You're treating me like a common criminal,'' she recalls telling the supervisor. ''You have no probable cause to be searching me like this. This is how a criminal gets treated.'' She says she then handed him her business card. As a lawyer, Ms. Gaynier specializes in real estate and landlord-tenant litigation, not criminal law. ''But I thought, well, I'll throw these legal terms out and see if I can back him down,'' she said. She could not. According to Ms. Gaynier, the supervisor said, ''Well, ma'am, since you're some legal eagle, did you know that you consented to this screening procedure when you purchased your ticket? And that if you don't consent to the screening, you don't get on your plane?'' She relented. ''I said, 'I just want to go home. Do your stupid pat-down and let me out of here.''' But then, she said, she got the pat-down deluxe. ''The agent comes over and starts on my left side. Under my arm, over my shoulder, down the side of my body to my waist, around my waistline, and then she comes up to my bra strap in the back and goes across to my right side, under the armpit, over the shoulders, and then she comes around front and touches me right between my breasts, and then follows the edge of my bra cups around both breasts. ''I was like, 'Whoa! What are you doing?' and I backed up. The supervisor was right there and he says, 'You're not allowing the screening to happen.' And I said, 'You're kidding me. You can't be touching me between my breasts.''' The supervisor summoned the police. Four officers promptly arrived on the scene. ''Real cops -- guns, clubs, the whole nine yards, all for me, this big security threat,'' Ms. Gaynier said. She does concede, ''I pitched quite a fit'' at the intervention. To make a long story short, she did not make her flight. The police escorted her from the gate area. She said she managed to find another flight home, on JetBlue, where she submitted unhappily but without overt objection to another public ''breast exam.'' The T.S.A. says that physical pat-downs are necessary to guard against the sort of nonmetallic explosives that checkpoint metal detectors do not pick up, and that screeners make every effort to protect passengers' privacy. Also, at several airports the T.S.A. is testing new detector technology that does not require a physical pat-down to test for explosives. But for the immediate future, the pat-down is evidently a fact of life for anyone chosen by screeners for a secondary inspection. Screeners are not thrilled with the new rules, either, said Mark Arsenault, a former law enforcement professional who publishes TSA-Screeners.com, an unofficial Web site for screeners to share news and complaints. A recent article on the site was headlined ''Don't Touch My Breasts!'' ''Most of the screeners who have commented to me about the subject seem to empathize with the travelers who complain, but at the same time know that the searches must be done for security reasons -- not to mention the fact that failing to conduct such a search could be grounds for termination under T.S.A. rules,'' said Mr. Arsenault, a graphic designer whose wife is a screener in Sacramento. We'll talk to screeners about this in a future column. Meanwhile, I'd like to hear from travelers with opinions about the issues raised by Ms. Gaynier. On the Road appears each Tuesday. BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE ROAD E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com"}