{"title": "MEMO PAD", "body_text": "BAGGAGE THIEVES BAGGED -- After police staged a months-long undercover sting, five baggage handlers at Kennedy Airport were charged last week with stealing laptop computers, cameras, compact discs and cash from the checked bags of passengers, according to the Queens district attorney's office, which estimated the total value of the stolen goods to be $23,000. The baggage handlers who were charged in the thefts were employees of Swissport USA, which transports luggage and cargo from terminals to aircraft. Some of the stolen goods were sold to undercover detectives or on eBay, the online auction house. Since April, about two dozen employees of the Transportation Security Administration have been arrested on charges of stealing from checked bags at six airports. A STEP UP FOR SMALL JETS -- Most business travelers dislike the cramped seating, low ceilings and meager storage space on the 50-seat or smaller regional jets that major airlines deploy on short-haul routes. But lately, airlines have been ordering new models of narrow-body jets in the 70-to-100-seat range that offer more room, more seats and storage, and greater fuel efficiency than regional jets. Recently, for example, United Express, the United Airlines subsidiary, has started using new 70-seat Embraer 170's on its Washington-Dulles service to Houston and Indianapolis, and between Chicago and Indianapolis on flights operated for United Express by Chautauqua Airlines. WHERE AM I NOW, AGAIN? -- The thick pocket-size monthly American Express Executive Travel SkyGuide, which lists global airline schedules in exhaustive detail, is now available electronically in a service called eSkyGuide. The annual subscription is $19.99 for those who already subscribe to the print edition, which costs $79 a year and has more than 90,000 subscribers, said Janet Libert, the editor and publisher. Nonsubscribers can get the new electronic service -- for use on laptop computers, personal digital assistants and other personal electronic devices -- for $69.95 a year. \"Our subscribers are the real road warriors,\" Ms. Libert said. \"For example, they average 185 nights a year in hotels.\" CHINA, HERE WE COME -- Domestic airlines are rushing to add or enhance nonstop service to China as demand grows sharply. On Sunday, United Airlines began daily nonstop service between O'Hare in Chicago and Pudong International Airport in Shanghai. ''United is the only U.S. airline to provide nonstop passenger service between the United States and mainland China,'' said Graham Atkinson, senior vice president for worldwide sales and alliances. United also flies nonstop between Shanghai and San Francisco, and serves Beijing daily from those cities. American Airlines said it was seeking regulatory approval to begin daily nonstop service between Chicago and Shanghai next May. Delta Air Lines said it filed for approval to begin daily nonstop service between Atlanta and Beijing in March 2006. And Continental filed for approval of daily nonstop service between its Newark hub and Beijing and Shanghai. Northwest Airlines serves China through its hub in Tokyo. J.F.K. LEADS THE WAY -- With an 8 percent spurt in traffic, Kennedy Airport in New York led the nation's top 25 airports in the rate of passenger traffic growth last year, a new study by the F.A.A. says. The reasons included more flights by JetBlue Airways, based at Kennedy, and continuing growth in international traffic. Kennedy handled 31.7 million passengers last year, ranking it 17th on the list of the top 25 busiest airports. The two busiest world airports were Atlanta Hartsfield (76.1 million passengers) and Chicago O'Hare (69.3 million). CHEAPEST FARE GUARANTEE -- If you buy an airline ticket on Orbitz.com, the online booking site, and later the same day you find a published fare on Orbitz on the same airline and with the same itinerary for at least $5 less, Orbitz says it will give you a $50 coupon for future airline, hotel and other travel bookings. The offer is good for domestic flights only, Orbitz said. Details and restrictions are listed on www.orbitz.com. JOE SHARKEY BUSINESS TRAVEL"}