{"title": "BUSINESS DIGEST", "body_text": "Now That Curse Has Ended, Marketers Love Red Sox  The World Series win by the Red Sox may be helping to end a Madison Avenue bias toward athletes like Wayne Gretzky who are known for long-term performance. Three Red Sox players -- Pedro Mart\u00ednez, Curt Schilling and David Ortiz, above -- are appearing in a commercial for Disney World, and Mr. Ortiz's face is popping up on Wheaties boxes. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [Page C10.] An I.P.O. Success, but Not for All  The founders of Epinions were once dot-com poster boys. Their company merged with another and became Shopping.com, which went public with a bang last week. But four of the five founders of Epinions did not see a dime from the offering. [C4.] Checking the Mall's Prices at Home  Three new online companies are trying to help consumers compare prices at offline merchants in their area. The sites are arriving as the interest in giving Web users more localized search results seems to be growing. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C5.] ID Chip May Not Be a Money Maker  Applied Digital's stock soared when regulators approved its implantable chip for use as an identity tag. But investors need to dig through the company's finances before deciding whether it is a safe bet. New Economy. [C2.] Training in Sound Bites and Smiles  The business of teaching people how to handle themselves on television has exploded, fed by the demand for talking heads. [C6.] Nanotechnology's Health Benefits  Researchers say nanotechnology, which involves manipulating materials on a tiny scale, could vastly improve health care. Its capacity for mixing and matching molecules and constructing new ones, they say, seems especially suited for transforming medicine. But the timeline for these advances is uncertain. [C4.] Fight Over Bank Bragging Rights  Is the reorganization of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group a merger? Citigroup would like it to be, because that would help the bank score higher in industry rankings. Its rivals say the real Shell deal happened in 1907. [C2.] More Lobbying by Broadcasters  Broadcasters have been spending more on lobbying to win more friends in Washington, a study shows. [C7.] Nigerian Strike May Focus on Oil  Unions in Nigeria called a strike for Nov. 16 that they said would be aimed at oil exports, and declared the Royal Dutch/Shell Group ''an enemy of the Nigerian people.'' [C8.]"}