{"title": "Teenage Suicide Bomber Kills 3 in a Market in Tel Aviv", "body_text": "A 16-year-old Palestinian blew himself up on Monday in an outdoor market here, killing 3 Israelis and wounding 32 others, three days after Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, left the region for medical attention in France. The scene at the Carmel market was grisly, with scattered cartons, bits of metal and crushed fruit in pools of blood, the pungent sweet odor of guavas mixed with the rusty tang of blood and explosive. One of the dead was the owner of a clothing shop, who was filling in for her sick husband; another was a young woman who had recently gone to work selling cheese. At the clothing shop, wire hangers were bent, and a blouse still hung above the wreckage, with holes from shrapnel. The third fatality was identified as Shmuel Levy, 65, of Jaffa. ''I saw people all over the ground,'' said Dani Kanyas, 46, who sells vegetables 30 yards from the site of the explosion. ''I went toward them to help the people -- they were without hands, without arms. But there wasn't anything I could do. Every moment we breathe is a miracle.'' From a hospital near Paris, Mr. Arafat condemned the attack, which was carried out by Amr al-Far, who lived in the Askar refugee camp near Nablus, on the West Bank. The attack was also condemned by Mr. Far's mother, Samira Abdullah, 45, who said: ''It's immoral to send someone so young. They should have sent an adult who understands the meaning of his deeds.'' The last suicide bomber, who blew herself up in Jerusalem in September, was also from the Askar camp. A large number of suicide bombers, and some of the youngest, have come from Nablus and its two major refugee camps, Askar and Balata. The boy's father, Abdelrahim al-Far, 54, told Agence France-Presse: ''I was asleep this morning when Amr woke me up. He kissed me and asked for two shekels,'' about 45 cents. ''He left the house and I went back to sleep.'' Responsibility for the attack was claimed by the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a militant faction of the Palestine Liberation Organization, which Mr. Arafat leads. The front is thought to be considerably smaller than other militant groups like Hamas and Islamic Jihad, and some experts suggested that there would be a competition among Palestinian groups for attention in the uncertainty surrounding Mr. Arafat, who left Ramallah, on the West Bank, on Friday. But senior Israeli officials doubt that the attack on Monday was directly connected to Mr. Arafat's departure. ''This kind of suicide bombing has to be planned well in advance,'' one official said. Police officials say they believe that the bomber got his explosive belt in Ramallah, and crossed into Israel at a point where a barrier Israel is building had yet to be finished. They say they believe that the bomber was diverted from Jerusalem and sought the softer target of the Carmel market, which does not require shoppers to pass through security checks. Earlier on Monday, before the bombing, the director of the Shin Bet security service, Avi Dichter, said at a conference that suicide bombers were the worst problem facing Israel; while they represented fewer than 1 percent of militants attacking Israelis, they were responsible for 65 percent of the victims. Israel is preventing nearly three-quarters of attempted entries by would-be suicide bombers this year, he said, compared with 62 percent last year. Palestinian officials insist that Mr. Arafat is feeling better and that his condition is not life-threatening, but senior Western diplomats here say those statements cannot be taken at face value and are intended to keep the Palestinian population calm. They suggest, without knowing the actual state of his health, that Mr. Arafat is unlikely to return to Ramallah and will not be able to fulfill his leadership functions. In Ramallah on Monday, Palestinian ministers held their first cabinet meeting since Mr. Arafat left, and a meeting of the national security council. The meetings were led by the prime minister, Ahmed Qurei, who also criticized the suicide bombing, saying, ''Such attacks do not serve our cause amid such a difficult situation,'' apparently referring to Mr. Arafat's illness, ''so we call on everyone to stop targeting civilians.'' Azzam al-Ahmed, the technology minister, insisted: ''President Arafat is still in charge. We are communicating with him and there's no vacancy for power at all.'' Mr. Arafat has always been loath to give up control of the national security council, a source of friction between him and Mahmoud Abbas, who resigned as prime minister after only four months, and who is No.2 in the P.L.O. The Palestinians face critical choices about how to respond to Israel's decision to pull its settlers out of Gaza, about internal security and how to manage the peace effort, choices that will not wait forever, said Aaron David Miller, a former Middle East negotiator who met with Mr. Arafat 10 days ago. The issue ''is less the succession -- a process already formalized -- and more the question of decision-making,'' Mr. Miller said. ''Who among the successors will have the legitimacy and authority to make important decisions in the months ahead?'' The Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, said that ''today's terror attack proved there has been no change in the Palestinian Authority,'' and that Israel ''will not stop its war on the murderous terrorism operating against us.'' In Nablus on Monday, Israeli troops killed three wanted men in an exchange of fire in an effort to arrest five suspects belonging to Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades. A senior Israeli official said the government was planning contingencies depending on Mr. Arafat's health. ''From our point of view it would be better if he doesn't return,'' the official said. ''Arafat is an obstacle to peace and has no credibility. We want to work with a Palestinian leadership that wears a business suit, not a military uniform. The chance for businesslike leadership is a real opportunity, and we hope for a leadership not connected to terrorism, that would have credibility with Israel and the United States.'' In the Carmel market here, David Israel, 52, who sells spices and pickles, said he had seen the three dead, including the wife of the clothes seller. ''This is the will of God,'' he said. ''He was sick and couldn't come, and she replaced him and was killed. They were all my friends.'' Nearby, a vendor of onions and potatoes picked up some of his spilled produce as the volunteers of Zaka, the Orthodox volunteers in fluorescent green vests who collect body parts for burial, searched the scene. He reached down for a potato, covered in blood, then discarded it. He stared off into the distance, as if in shock, then slowly ate a sandwich. An old woman moved on her knees through a pile of crushed avocados and guavas. She held a small plastic bag, salvaging what fruit she could find."}