{"title": "Thai King Urges Premier to Be More Lenient in the Muslim South", "body_text": "In a sign of national crisis, Thailand's revered king summoned Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra and urged him to take a more measured approach toward Muslim violence in the south, Mr. Thaksin said Monday. ''He expressed his concern over the situation in the south and he asked the government to consider being more lenient in dealing with the problem and to allow locals to participate in problem-solving,'' Mr. Thaksin told reporters. King Bhumibol Adulyadej, whose moral influence transcends politics here, has stepped in only at rare moments to admonish government leaders. Anger and dismay have grown in Thailand since Tuesday, when the government admitted that 78 Muslim men had died of suffocation in military trucks. They had been detained after a demonstration by 2,000 people in Narathiwait Province in which six people where shot to death. Mr. Thaksin said he had taken personal charge of the response to the demonstration. The government's initial blithe response -- that the victims had died of weakness caused by fasting during the Muslim month of Ramadan -- has fueled a surge of anger and threats of reprisals from Muslims in southern Thailand. Independent forensic examiners and survivors said the men died when they were piled on top of one another with their hands tied behind their backs and left in enclosed trucks for at least five hours. ''His majesty has urged both sides to refrain from violence -- both the government and militants who keep hurting people,'' Mr. Thaksin said. King Bhumibol, 76, is the world's longest-reigning monarch and in his usually silent and ceremonial presence embodies Thai nationhood and commands widespread reverence. Until pressured by national and international outrage, particularly from Thailand's Muslim neighbors, Mr. Thaksin had declined to apologize for the deaths or admit wrongdoing and had said the government would not change its confrontational approach in the largely Muslim south. He has since expressed regret and pledged an independent inquiry. Military commanders in the south have also told journalists they intend to continue their policy of force. That will only fuel anger and insurgency and could lead to communal violence, said Chaiwat Satha-Anan, an expert on the south at Thammasat University in Bangkok. ''We are now witnessing a further erosion of trust, and also of relations between people of different religions who have been living together,'' he said. Other commentators are warning that Thailand has, in a stroke, become a target for both local and international Islamist terrorists. ''That's what I'm afraid of,'' said Kraisak Chunhavan, a Thai senator, who traveled to the scene with a fact-finding mission. ''The Muslim reaction to this has been very strong, from Bangladesh to Indonesia.'' He said one Muslim group in Malaysia, just across the border to the south, had already warned of reprisals. Thailand received a friendly warning from Indonesia, a Muslim country that has gone down this road. ''Indonesians have learned from insurgencies in Aceh and Papua -- even though our government has not -- that ruthless violence only begets violence,'' said The Jakarta Post, an English-language daily, in an editorial. ''The strong arm of the Thai military may win battles, but only through hearts and minds will they win such a war.'' More than 400 people have died on both sides this year in the country's three southern provinces, home to most of the Muslims who make up 10 percent of this largely Buddhist nation of 63 million. Some commentators and human rights advocates in Thailand said the tension in the south had crossed a point of no return. ''This carnage has shattered the hope for peace in the deep south,'' wrote The Nation, an English-language daily. ''It has dealt a big blow to the country's image as a civilized nation. Above all, it clearly demonstrates that this government lacks the moral authority to lead the country.'' The king has in the past indirectly urged Mr. Thaksin to be more restrained and less imperious in his leadership."}