{"title": "In Iraq, Pondering Vote in U.S. (Looks Close There, Too)", "body_text": "When it comes to the effect of the American elections on the lives of ordinary people, Iraq might as well be just another swing state. Virtually everyone here has something at stake, from Iraqi contractors and day laborers who work for the American military, to parents who want to send their children safely to school each day, to mujahedeen. Nearly all of them have opinions on the cosmic question of the day: Kerry or Bush? And in a way that would seem not at all out of place in the aisles of a Wal-Mart in Cleveland or beside a gas pump in Fort Lauderdale, a fair portion of the opinion here is overwhelmingly partisan and delivered with absolute certainty. ''If I had enough money,'' said Razzaq al-Asadi, a worker in the holy city of Karbala, ''I would have built a statue for President Bush in one of Baghdad's squares to express our gratitude for ending Saddam's era.'' The Iraqi partisans for Senator John Kerry are no less sure of themselves, although many seem motivated as much by a deep dislike of Mr. Bush as by affection for his challenger. ''We all know that Bush is vicious,'' said Muhammad Sharif, an electrical engineer in Mosul, before giving his decidedly more lukewarm endorsement of Kerry: ''I hope that Kerry has enough intelligence to run things in the right way.'' A poll of 2,000 people by the Iraq Center for Research and Strategic Studies showed that Iraqis who had an opinion on the two candidates were evenly divided. If Iraq really were a swing state, a possible danger sign for the president would be the number of people who seem to have shifted their allegiance from him since the invasion toppled Saddam Hussein last year. Saad Shakir Tawfiq, a nuclear scientist in Baghdad who was under virtual house arrest for years under Mr. Hussein, said he was euphoric when the Americans forced the dictator out. Then, as the streets of his city became deadlier by the week, his views on Mr. Bush began to change. ''I feel very bad about this,'' Dr. Tawfiq said. ''If I were an American, I would definitely vote against him.'' Dr. Tawfiq said the American-led conflict in Iraq had been ''mismanaged from top to bottom.'' As long as Iraqis avoided criticism of Mr. Hussein and his family, they could survive on the streets, he said. Now, he said: ''We lost everything. Everything is worse to me.'' Although Dr. Tawfiq may not be a typical political animal here -- his sister is a Kerry fund-raiser in Cleveland -- his sentiments are echoed widely. ''I'm very grateful to Bush and his administration and what they've done for Iraq,'' said Kamel Chadirji, a ministry official in Baghdad. ''All my life I will be grateful to him. But I will vote for Kerry,'' inadvertently speaking as if he really could go to the polls on Tuesday. To be sure, there are pockets of support for each candidate in Iraq, just as there are in the United States. The fortress-like Green Zone on the western shore of the Tigris River, for instance, with thousands of Iraqis who make their livelihoods working directly for the Americans, is a Bush bastion. Areas that are on the other side of the American military's guns, as in the rebel-held town of Falluja, are a different story entirely. Sheik Khalid al-Jumaili, the chief negotiator representing the people of Falluja in talks aimed at averting an imminent American-led invasion, at first said the elections would change nothing for the town either way. But then he warmed to the topic. ''If there is the slightest possibility of a change in the policy in Iraq,'' he said, ''then we pray to God that Kerry wins. We have suffered enough and we need a change in policies.'' He is far from the only resident of Falluja to feel that way. Of eight men at a recent gathering of former soldiers, tribal leaders and intellectuals at a home in Falluja, six said they hoped Mr. Kerry would win. ''The policy of Bush was one of violence and war, and we don't think Bush will change that,'' said a former officer in the Iraqi Army. ''Maybe Kerry will be wiser. Even if he doesn't withdraw the American forces, maybe he'll reduce the violence. Even people in America now think that because of Bush's policy, others in the world have taken an aggressive view against America.'' The poor and rundown Baghdad district of Sadr City is a place where Bush-Cheney bumper stickers would be ill-advised. A half-dozen followers of Moktada al-Sadr, the rebel Shiite cleric, recently confronted an American reporter and photographer in a home there. The militiamen had just learned that the journalists were American and, their faces flushed with surprise and anger, conducted a quick test to see if they could trust them. ''Bush or Kerry?'' asked a mid-level official named Muhammad. The photographer said neither choice appeared good, an answer that inspired even harder looks from the men. The debate over the two candidates brought complicated arguments from some quarters. Abdul Salaam al-Kubaisi, a senior member of the Muslim Scholars Association, a group of Sunni clerics that claims to represent 3,000 mosques and has close ties to the insurgency, said the association had come up with an unofficial endorsement. ''Both of them are bad and evil,'' Mr. Kubaisi said. ''But we want Kerry to win because we want Bush to lose his coalition. ''But personally,'' he said, ''I hope Bush will win rather than Kerry. I don't want the American people to topple Bush; I want the Iraqi people to topple him.'' Other Iraqis come off as dream endorsements for one side or other, reinforcing exactly the messages that the candidates have been trying to put across in the United States. ''Mr. George W. Bush,'' said Adel Naji, an Iraqi journalist attending a conference in the Green Zone, when asked which side he favored. ''I can say what I want in Iraq,'' Mr. Naji said in English, praising Mr. Bush's victory over Mr. Hussein's repressive government. ''Just a little trouble in my life -- no safety. But this is not important things. I have my freedom; that is enough.'' For others, the choice turns on simpler considerations. ''A crazy guy whom you know is better than a sane guy you do not know,'' said Muhammad Yehia, a merchant in Mosul. ''That is why I prefer Bush. I don't know anything about Kerry.'' Without declaring his own allegiance, Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said Iraqi officials were awaiting the results with bated breath, even as they took tiny steps toward taking part in their own first democratic elections, scheduled for January. ''Everything is on hold until the American elections take place,'' he said. The citizens here wait, and debate, along with America, turning each consideration this way and that. But there is at least one term in the political equation on Tuesday that draws entirely blank stares. In Mahmudiya, at a training base for police and national guard recruits, the young men bandied about ''Boosh'' and ''Kay-rrrie'' endlessly, stopping only when an American photographer found a surefire way to fend off queries about his allegiance. He told them he was voting for Ralph Nader. THE REACH OF WAR: POLITICS"}