{"title": "Lebanese Would-Be Suicide Bomber Tells How Volunteers Are Waging Jihad in Iraq", "body_text": "He shaved his beard to appear less conspicuously religious and then slipped into Iraq through Syria, willing to die to defeat the Americans. Soon, the young Lebanese teacher says, he found himself in a safe house in Baghdad, with a long list of Saudis and Kuwaitis ahead of him waiting to become suicide bombers. Tired of waiting, he cadged an assignment in Falluja and learned Iraqi slang so he could travel there from Baghdad without attracting attention. But the Iraqis in Falluja eventually suggested that he and all of the mujahedeen with him in a safe house there return home. Arab governments and Western intelligence officials express growing concern that Iraq is becoming the training ground that Afghanistan was in the 1980's, breeding another generation of fanatical warriors ready to carry their jihad back home. Interviews with mujahedeen are rare. The violence inside Iraq makes them inaccessible; many die in the fighting and those who return face imprisonment if their own governments discover what they have done. But on Friday afternoon, here in this notorious outlaw valley in eastern Lebanon, the teacher, a handsome 32-year-old Sunni Muslim with a neatly trimmed brown beard and a stocky build, agreed to describe his odyssey into jihad. He agreed on the condition that neither his name nor his village be mentioned. In September, some half a dozen men from a Bekaa village called Majdal Anjar were among more than 35 arrested on various terrorism charges, including encouraging young men to fight in Iraq. One suspect from there died under interrogation. As the light on the barren, dusty Anti-Lebanon mountain range soaring above the village changed to a deep purple sunset, the well-spoken teacher, dressed in jeans and a plaid shirt, sat on a low couch in the office of his local cleric, who vouched for him and said he knew of other young men who had made the trip. He described his experiences last winter in convincing detail. Much of what he said confirms the broad outlines of what many military analysts suggest: that the hard-to-quantify Arab volunteers are a contributing factor, especially in suicide bombings, but Iraqis run the resistance. Before leaving for Iraq, he said, he first studied at an ad hoc academy for jihad. The classes, under clerical tutelage, gave some of the many men from the area who wanted to fight an understanding of the religious basis for expelling infidel invaders from Muslim lands. ''I wasn't allowed to go just like that,'' he said. ''I had to agree with the idea of jihad, with the ideology behind it, before I was ready to act. It wasn't enough just to say I want to go be a martyr; I had to know why.'' The teacher said he had particularly been struck by several statements from the Jordanian militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi -- who has claimed responsibility for a series of beheadings, bombings and other grisly acts that have made him the most wanted terrorist in Iraq -- saying there was no need to carry the fight to the United States itself when so many targets were available on occupied Arab land. ''Zarqawi addressed himself to all Muslim youth, saying that the Americans have come and come with all their armies, they attacked us, so we should go ourselves to take our revenge,'' the teacher said. He sidestepped questions about whether he had encountered Mr. Zarqawi in Falluja, noting only that all fighters adopted guerrilla aliases of Abu So-And-So, making it next to impossible to know the strangers with whom he had shared safe houses. But the teacher denied that he himself was motivated by the desire to kill. ''I decided on jihad because I wanted to stop the occupation, not out of the love of blood,'' he said. His anger was fed by almost daily scenes on television of Iraqi women and children dying, not to mention Palestinians suffering the same fate. Similar fury percolates throughout the region. A reporter entering a money exchange shop in the Bekaa village of Masnaa, a frenetic crossroads right on the Syrian-Lebanese border, was asked if he was American and then was handed a pamphlet filled with gory pictures of dead children, burned bodies and photographs of soldiers torturing Iraqi detainees at Abu Ghraib prison. ''Where Are the Men?'' shouted the headline above the pictures. ''Who Will Avenge Our Dignity?'' The money changer said many men in the region had long dreamed of joining the Palestinians fighting Israel, but that border is impenetrable. The road to Iraq is open, he noted, and killing American soldiers is the next best thing. The tract's 16 pages brimmed with outrage over the results of the American invasion, mocking the idea that it would spur democracy when it was obviously intended to control Iraqi oil and neuter Israel's only real Arab foe. ''I think those who can fight should fight -- Lebanese, Arabs, everyone,'' said Maan Bashur, a main organizer behind the Civic Campaign to Support Palestine and Iraq, saying a member group had distributed some 30,000 of the pamphlets throughout Lebanon. ''But this campaign is not about military support,'' he added. The Bush administration has pressed Syria and other neighboring countries to seal their borders to try to bar foreign militants. Recent reports of arrests near Iraq's borders show that some of those efforts are succeeding, but also that the flow continues. Saudi press reports last week said four men in their 30's had been arrested trying to breach the northern border near Hafr al Batan, while a national guard lieutenant who deserted to join the jihad had died in a suicide operation in Iraq. At least five Kuwaitis, including a military officer arrested in Syria in the past few months, were deported, and the Kuwaiti newspaper Al Rai al Am reported last week that they included a teenager carrying a letter affirming his ''pure jihad'' intentions. Kuwait's ambassador to Damascus, Suleiman Ibrahim al-Murjan, says he believes that there is a kind of regional underground railroad funneling fighters to Iraq. ''There is no doubt that there are some people whose main task is to push others,'' he said. ''There has to be somebody who is paying for them. There has to be somebody who is bringing them to Iraq, somebody who is receiving them.'' Stealing into Iraq, the Lebanese teacher said, was merely a matter of money. He paid an Iraqi smuggler $500 of his $1,500 in savings to include him in a group that was guided over the border. The teacher tried to look clean-cut for the trip, so that from a distance nobody would suspect he was a mujahid. ''There were patrols, lots of patrols, and whenever we saw the Americans we would hit the dirt,'' he said. To their dismay, the men discovered that some kind of desert bird slept on the ground at night, so whenever they dropped onto the sand, the birds would flap and screech, scaring the insurgents and making them fear discovery by the American patrols even more. The teacher said an eight-hour delay in the crossing had made him miss his rendezvous with the Iraqi insurgents who were to guide him to Baghdad, so he had called back to Lebanon to arrange another meeting. Once in the Iraqi capital, he said, he was put in a room in a house with sealed windows with roughly 15 other Arabs, including men from Libya, Egypt, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. ''There are three ways of targeting the enemy,'' he said the Iraqi in charge of the group had told them. ''One was to plant a roadside bomb, but I had no experience with that. The second was to shoot at patrols, and although I had some experience with weapons, I had not done military service and did not know that much about them. The third and best jihad was to drive a car into the enemy.'' He volunteered to steer a vehicle into any United States military target, but did not want to kill Iraqis -- even Iraqi soldiers. After a week doing nothing he asked to go somewhere else and was transferred to Falluja. He again shaved his beard, and in the taxi on the way he threw out occasional greetings like ''Sha ku ma ku?'' -- Iraqi slang for ''What's happening?'' -- so no one would denounce him as a foreigner. In Falluja he was taken to another sealed house, where he spent some time with a rotating group of Arab fighters, including two experienced guerrillas who had traveled across Iran from Afghanistan and were directing some operations. The Arabs were told that if they wanted to fight Americans, they would have to pay $200 for their military kit, including a machine gun, rocket-propelled grenade launcher and 10 hand grenades. They also had to pay for food. He said they all took turns buying dinner, although there were several well-to-do Saudis in the house who had plenty of money and often insisted on treating. Eventually the owner of the house, a newlywed who had sent his bride back to his mother, complained that there were so many men that the house might attract unwanted notice, bringing American bombs down on their heads. He told the men that if they really wanted to help, they would donate whatever money they had and return home to raise funds and support for the Iraqi resistance. The teacher said that after a few calm weeks he decided to come home, although he says he now regrets it because he recognized some of the men he had been with in news reports on suicide operations. ''After seeing the land and the people in Iraq, after seeing what I saw and feeling what I felt, I should be there,'' he said. ''I shouldn't have come back.'' THE REACH OF WAR: FOREIGN FIGHTERS"}