{"title": "Abductors Say 3 Hostages In Afghanistan Are Separated", "body_text": "Militants claiming responsibility for the kidnapping of three foreign United Nations election workers said Monday that they had separated the hostages to prevent their rescue by international and Afghan security forces. In telephone calls to Reuters and The Associated Press, Mullah Es Haq Manzoor, a spokesman who describes himself as the military commander of the group, Jaish-e-Muslimeen, repeated his threat that the hostages would be killed if a rescue attempt was made. ''We have separated the three hostages and are keeping them far from each other so that in case one is discovered by the authorities, we have the chance to kill the other two,'' Reuters quoted Mr. Manzoor as saying. An American soldier was also killed and two were wounded Monday in an attack in southeastern Afghanistan, where the United States has a base close to the Pakistani border, The A.P. reported, quoting an American military spokesman, Maj. Mark McCann. The three hostages were abducted in Kabul on Thursday. Jaish-e-Muslimeen, or Army of Muslims, claimed responsibility very quickly and has made repeated calls to news agencies in the days since to lay out conditions. On Sunday, the leader of the group, Akbar Agha, said the three would be killed if his demands -- that United Nations and foreign military forces withdraw from Afghanistan, and that the hostages' home countries denounce the presence of the foreign troops -- were not met by Wednesday. The three hostages -- a British-Irish woman, Annetta Flanigan; a Kosovo Albanian woman, Shqipe Habibi; and a Filipino diplomat working for the United Nations, Angelito Nayan -- were shown on a video released to the Arab network Al Jazeera on Sunday. The three were sitting together on the floor against a wall, watched by a guard whose head and face were hidden by a checkered scarf. Mr. Manzoor also said his group was in contact with the Afghan government and the United Nations through a businessman acting as a mediator, Reuters reported. A government official said the first tentative leads to make contact with the hostage takers were coming together. Officials are hoping to use tribal, religious and factional contacts to try to reach the kidnappers, who are thought to be a local gang with connections inside Kabul, and who may be separate from the men making the phone calls. THE REACH OF WAR: MILITANTS"}