{"title": "The outcome of the election may just refine the lessons gleaned from the media contest.", "body_text": "TODAY, after spending $600 million this year to market their candidates, the supporters of President Bush and Senator John Kerry wait to see which side will close the sale. But Madison Avenue, public relations agencies and big corporate advertisers are already trying to divine lessons from the long, expensive contest for the White House. Here are some they are discussing. ACT NOW -- RIGHT NOW -- Product marketers must follow their political counterparts in acknowledging that a constant flow of information has virtually replaced the 24-hour news cycle, executives said. ''We have to think like every day is Election Day,'' said Linda Kaplan Thaler, chief executive and chief creative officer at the Kaplan Thaler Group in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe. ''We need to force ourselves -- all of us, advertisers, people in the business -- to put very, very stringent deadlines on everything we do.'' Inaction seemed to hurt Mr. Kerry when he remained silent after a group called Swift Boat Veterans for Truth began questioning the severity of the wounds he received in Vietnam and his subsequent antiwar activities. BLOGS ARE BIG -- Web logs, or blogs, seemed to grow their adult teeth when their authors received press passes to the national party conventions. Despite their partisan nature, they became a source of information for many political aficionados, in many cases at the expense of the traditional media, said Nick Hahn, managing director at Vivaldi Partners in New York, a strategy, marketing and brand consulting company. ''The blogs don't market themselves,'' Mr. Hahn said. ''People self-select the blogs they read.'' For that reason, they may be particularly effective ways to reach younger consumers, who often dislike having products sold to them but enjoy feeling that they have discovered something for themselves. Some marketers are already experimenting with the form. Since last month, General Motors has been posting a blog devoted to a type of engine, known as the small block, that it developed 50 years ago for Chevrolets. Nike and others have hired Denton Media, the operator of eight gossipy blogs like Gawker and Wonkette, to create custom blogs. Ad agencies like Butler, Shine, Stern & Partners in Sausalito, Calif., and Yellowfin Direct Marketing in Boston have started blogs of their own. STAND BY YOUR BRAND -- ''When advertising a brand, you want to be consistent,'' said Ron Lawner, chairman and chief creative officer at Arnold Worldwide in Boston, part of Havas, which creates ads for clients like Volkswagen of America and the Bermuda Department of Tourism. The candidates hurt themselves by failing the consistency test, he said. ''One minute they're nasty, the next minute they're apple pie and mom.'' Kathy Delaney, executive creative director and managing partner at the New York office of Deutsch, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, said that consistency was crucial. ''Too many brands out there flip-flop about that, to use a term that's been applied to one of the candidates,'' she said. ''If you start doing something different, people don't believe it.'' KFC might have heeded that advice last year, when it tried to sell its fried chicken as healthier than consumers might have thought. That campaign soon ended, and now KFC is back to aiming at its core customer who loves fried chicken for its taste. The latest ads call KFC ''Chicken Capital USA.'' LOYALTY IS ROYALTY -- Consumer brands can learn from the way the presidential campaigns viewed voters this year, less by demographics or psychographics than by loyalty, said Mr. Hahn, the Vivaldi Partners executive. Rather than categorizing potential supporters exclusively by sex or income, the campaigns sorted them into groups like ''soft supporters, fence-sitters and soft rejecters,'' Mr. Hahn said. Product marketers spend enormous amounts of time and money trying to convert people who are devoted fans of rival brands, but the candidates were able to ignore such ''hard rejecters'' and channel their resources to more fruitful purposes. FORGET THE BOX -- ''Gone are the days when you would say to people, 'think outside the box,' because in essence there is no box anymore,'' said Ms. Thaler. ''We need to work more by chaos theory than by linear thinking.'' Ms. Thaler said that in an era awash in information (and misinformation), all the variables that might once have been incidental to a political campaign or a marketer have become potentially significant. Not that separating the important from the ephemeral is getting any easier. For example, the Subservient Chicken Web site run by Burger King, which is meant to promote a type of chicken sandwich, is being parodied by a site called Subservient President, with results impossible to gauge. The parody invites visitors to give orders to a man wearing a mask of President Bush. ''Get politics just the way corporate America likes it,'' the site says. ''Type a command.'' (The site includes a link to the real Subservient Chicken site.) ''We're seeing a genuine form of cross-pollination that serves the interests of both the advertising community and people who want to inject art or politics into popular culture,'' said Steve Anderson, a research assistant professor of interactive media at the University of Southern California who created the parody site. The lessons, of course, will grow clearer -- once a winner is declared. THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING"}