{"title": "Southwest Is Adding Flights To Protect Its Chicago Hub", "body_text": "Southwest Airlines said yesterday that it would add 16 flights a day from Chicago Midway Airport, moving to protect a valuable hub amid the fight breaking out over the assets of ATA Airlines, the airport's biggest carrier. Southwest said that beginning in January, it would add the flights to 13 cities that it already served from Midway. The announcement came a week after ATA filed for bankruptcy protection. At the same time, ATA said it would sell its operations at Midway and gates at La Guardia Airport in New York and Reagan National Airport in Washington to AirTran Airways for $87.6 million. Southwest, the nation's sixth-largest airline; ATA, the 10th largest; and AmericaWest Airlines, which is 12th biggest, are all discount carriers. Last week, the chief executive of Southwest, Gary Kelly, said the airline would significantly expand at Midway, its fourth-biggest airport and its most important hub. Currently, Southwest has 145 flights a day from Midway, and 2,900 employees. It started service at Midway in 1985 with seven flights a day. Southwest said it would add two flights a day from Midway to Orlando and Fort Lauderdale in Florida, and to Manchester, N.H. It will add one flight a day to Las Vegas; Raleigh, N.C.; Tampa; Los Angeles; Oakland; Phoenix; Seattle; Providence, R.I.; Philadelphia; and Columbus, Ohio. The flights will start in January, February and March, depending on the city. Southwest also plans to add 29 new Boeing 737's to its fleet next year, one reason the airline is able to increase its schedules. It said it would operate the additional flights out of its 19 gates at Midway. But some analysts say Southwest might make an offer for some of ATA's 14 gates at Midway, so that it could expand even further. Also, America West, another low-fare carrier, said it might be interested in buying all of ATA, including its operations at Midway. Any deal for ATA's assets would require approval from the United States Bankruptcy Court, from the City of Chicago and from a federal loan board. America West and ATA each have outstanding balances on federally backed loans. The ratings agency Standard & Poor's said yesterday that it was changing its outlook for America West from neutral to negative, meaning it could cut the airline's debt rating if conditions do not improve. S.&P. cited America West's $47 million third-quarter loss, and said it expected further losses. S.&P. has a B- rating on America West's debt."}