{"title": "Newspaper Circulation Continues to Decline", "body_text": "The average circulation of the nation's newspapers fell in the six months ended in September, as new federal restrictions on telemarketing and a more conservative approach by some publications to counting paid readership put further pressure on an already struggling industry. The losses were widespread, with two-thirds of papers reporting flat or declining circulation, including The Washington Post and The Daily News, according to an analysis by the Newspaper Association of America of figures released yesterday by the Audit Bureau of Circulations. And the industry's decline was more evident on Sundays. The average daily circulation for the nation's 841 daily newspapers fell 0.9 percent, to 47,711,751, for the six months ended Sept. 30, as compared with the period a year earlier, according to the newspaper association. For those 662 papers that publish Sundays, the drop over the same period was 1.5 percent, to 51,625,241, according to the association's analysis. Over the last decade, newspaper circulation has generally declined in the face of competition from the Internet and other sources. ''We see results that aren't a heck of a lot different from what we've seen over time,'' said John F. Sturm, president and chief executive of the newspaper association. But hopes that the decline had bottomed out -- expressed at this time last year when daily circulation for the six months ended in September was reported to have grown slightly -- may be misplaced. The results were the first that the audit bureau has released since four newspapers, beginning in June, reported they had inflated their circulation. Two of those papers, Newsday and Hoy, a Spanish-language daily, are owned by Tribune Company, which said last week that in response, another of its publications, The Los Angeles Times, had taken a more cautious approach to counting its paid circulation. That approach contributed to a 5.6 percent decline in daily circulation at The Los Angeles Times, to 902,164, and a 6.3 percent decline in Sunday circulation, to 1,292,274. Another of the company's papers, The Chicago Tribune, reported that its average weekday circulation fell 2 percent, to 600,988, and that its Sunday circulation dropped 3.8 percent, to 963,927. But declines of that magnitude were more the exception than the rule, said Edward J. Atorino, managing director of Fulcrum Global Partners, an independent research firm. The industry, he added, could breathe easier knowing that it had passed relatively unscathed through a reporting period that was generally acknowledged to be critical. ''The fears of some massive circulation decline were just overwrought,'' said Mr. Atorino, who said his firm had no investments in newspapers or other media companies. ''The downward trend in circulation is continuing, but it's not a major new downtrend.'' Among the nation's large papers reporting declines, The Washington Post. said that its average weekday circulation fell 3 percent, to 707,690, and 1.8 percent on Sundays, to 1.007 million. Boisfeuillet Jones Jr., publisher and chief executive, did not return a phone call late yesterday afternoon seeking comment. Among the major papers that experienced an increase in paid readership was USA Today, which reported that its average daily circulation had increased 2.8 percent, to 2.31 million. A spokesman for the newspaper, Steven Anderson, cited increased sales in the travel market. The New York Times also reported increases, with its average circulation increasing 0.2 percent on weekdays, to 1.12 million, as well as on Sundays, to 1.68 million. Few papers experienced the growth of The New York Post, which continued to narrow its gap, at least on weekdays, with The Daily News. The average weekday readership of The Post rose 5.2 percent, to 686,207, while that of The News fell 1.6 percent, to 715,052. The gap between the publications is now fewer than 30,000 papers on weekdays. The Post, however, charges half the price of The News from Monday through Friday. ''Our growth has primarily been in New York City, the five boroughs, and nearby,'' said Col Allan, editor in chief of The Post. ''People are voting with their feet, or should I say, their change.'' But while the average Sunday circulation of The News fell, by 2 percent, to 786,952, the paper still holds a formidable lead over The Post, which rose, by 4.2 percent, to 455,511."}