{"title": "The TV That Sent Out a Cry for Help, via Satellite", "body_text": "It may be that many people, staring blankly from their sofas into the empty, late-night flicker of their televisions, are in need of rescuing. Few, though, would expect a TV -- or a garage door opener, or a photocopier -- to issue a cry for help. Early last month, Chris van Rossman's television silently began to malfunction, emitting a signal that bounced off two satellites, alerted personnel at Langley Air Force Base in Virginia, and ultimately led a team of local sheriff's deputies and Civil Air Patrol volunteers to the door of his apartment in Corvallis, Ore. He was advised to keep the TV turned off to avoid incurring $10,000 a day in fines for emitting a false distress signal. The television's maker, Toshiba, is replacing the set that cried wolf. The TV -- like refrigerators, shavers and vacuum cleaners -- was simply doing what all electrical gizmos do: emitting energy. On this particular Saturday night, however, some hidden bit of the television's electronic innards simply went on the blink. And while the set appeared to be functioning normally, it was suddenly oozing energy at a frequency -- 121.5 megahertz -- that happens to be reserved for international distress signals. Each year, thousands of distress signals send rescuers around the globe scrambling. More often than not, the signals lead not to an emergency, but to an unintentionally activated distress beacon on a plane, aboard a ship, or in the backpack of a mountain climber. Now and then, though, the errant signal comes from a malfunctioning appliance. Incidents like the one in Oregon, which was first reported by The Corvallis Gazette-Times, in fact, have played a part in nudging the international search-and-rescue community away from the 121.5 frequency that, among other shortcomings, is subject to interference from electronic devices gone bad. Officials say that by 2009, when search-and-rescue agencies plan to stop monitoring the old frequency, the aim is to have all emergency beacons emit a digital signal on a new frequency of 406 megahertz. While the new system will not be immune to false alarms, its signal will be distinguishable from the electromagnetic chatter of a pizza oven. Yes, that has happened too. ''It's not as bizarre as you would imagine,'' said Maj. Allan Knox, the assistant director of operations at the Air Force Rescue Coordination Center at Langley Air Force Base. ''We see it a couple times a year.'' In 2000, for instance, the emergency system started receiving weekly distress calls from Donald W. Reynolds Razorback Stadium in Fayetteville, Ark., after the University of Arkansas unveiled a new, 30 feet by 107 feet SmartVision scoreboard. Its video processor system, it seems, was emitting spurious signals on the 121.5 frequency. National agencies like the Federal Communications Commission or global bodies like the International Telecommunications Union strive to prevent this kind of thing. They are the traffic cops on the electromagnetic superhighway, ensuring that everything, whether a baby monitor, FM radio broadcast or distress signal, stays in its lane. And while regulations and product testing help keep signals from running into one another, the increasingly dense forest of electronic gadgetry on the planet raises the odds of inadvertent signal leakage. ''It doesn't surprise me that a TV set is emitting signals in some band in which it is not supposed to be transmitting,'' said Peter B. Ladkin, a professor of computer science at the University of Bielefeld in Germany who studies signal interference. Although he was surprised to learn that the signal managed to bleed into such a highly regulated part of the spectrum, random emissions of energy, Professor Ladkin said, are par for the course. ''That happens all the time with personal electronics,'' he said in an e-mail message. ''There are numerous reports of passenger electronics interfering with navigational displays in the cockpits of commercial aircraft, going back decades.'' That is partly why search-and-rescue organizations want to do away with using the 121.5 frequency for international distress signals. Before the 1970's, finding a downed aircraft in a remote region was a needle-in-a-haystack venture. So after a small plane carrying two members of Congress vanished over Alaska in 1970, Congress required that all civilian aircraft in the United States carry emergency locator beacons. Those early beacons, designed for both manual and, in the event of a crash, automatic activation, were to broadcast their signals at 121.5 MHz -- the distress frequency long used by aviators. Search-and-rescue planes could then tune their radios to that frequency and home in on the signal. The system worked well enough, but satellite technology adopted in the 1980's expanded coverage and made the system truly global. Anticipating those developments, four nations -- the United States, Canada, France and the Soviet Union -- rallied around the promise of satellites and formed an organization known as Cospas-Sarsat in 1979. (Sarsat stands for Search-and-Rescue Satellite-Aided Tracking; Cospas is the Russian equivalent.) The new 406 MHz frequency was adopted to work specifically with satellites. Where the old radio beacons were little more than crude homing devices, the newer frequency permits beacons to send digital signals with identifying information that can speed rescue time and eliminate false alarms from, say, malfunctioning outdoor Christmas lights. (Yes, really.) The older radio frequency, however, is still widely used, and Cospas-Sarsat, which now has 35 members and dozens of monitoring stations around the globe, has had to monitor both channels for the last two decades. So the organization is printing pamphlets, setting up Web sites and otherwise spreading the gospel of the 406 frequency. And it is reminding pilots and sailors around the world that after Feb. 1, 2009, no rescuer will respond to the 121.5 help line. One factor hindering upgrades, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which oversees the Sarsat system in the United States, is that the modern units are more expensive, costing about $1,500, while old beacons broadcasting at 121.5 can be had for less than $500. Still, the higher cost can be justified. The F.A.A. estimates that 134 extra lives and millions of dollars in search-and-rescue resources could be saved each year if everyone switched to the 406 frequency. That's not to say, of course, that using the digital signal will eliminate false alarms. In the United States alone, 369 -- or 3 percent -- of the more than 12,000 distress signals using the older frequency in 2003 proved to be real emergencies. But the record is not much better with new beacons: of the more than 3,000 signals that went up at 406 MHz last year, only 167, or 5 percent, were distress situations. While that sounds pretty ineffective, rescue officials say that is just the nature of the beast. ''It's true for 911 calls. It's true for just about any distress alerting system,'' said Ajay Mehta, the program coordinator for Sarsat in Suitland, Md. Even in a system that responds exclusively to signals at the 406 MHz frequency, the vast majority of calls will come from inadvertently activated beacons, Mr. Mehta said, and there will still be random signals from other devices bleeding into the 406 range. But if a signal is not carrying a digital ID, operators will know that it is not an emergency beacon and rescue forces will not be dispatched. He also said that a few weeks of TV-free living have been, in their own way, liberating. ''I've managed to get out of the house more often,'' he said. ''So that's a good thing.'' Correction:  November 9, 2004, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Nov. 1 about a malfunctioning television set that emitted distress signals misattributed a comment about the owners' change in routine after the set was removed and before it was replaced. It was Chris van Rossman, the owner, who said a few weeks of TV-free living had been liberating -- not Ajay Mehta, program coordinator for the satellite search and rescue system that monitors distress beacons."}