{"title": "Lockout at Top Hotels Mars Tourism in San Francisco", "body_text": "The drumbeats and chanted slogans begin at dawn and echo through downtown streets well after dark, as bellhops, barkeeps, maids and cooks -- locked out of their jobs by 14 of this city's most prominent hotels -- picket to protest stalled contract talks that have set this popular tourist destination on edge. Now in its fifth week, this labor dispute threatens to tarnish San Francisco's self-described reputation as ''Everyone's Favorite City.'' Workers are at odds with their managers, and city leaders are at odds with hotel owners. Mayor Gavin Newsom said he was so frustrated by the continuing lockout last week that he briefly joined a picket line to show owners his solidarity with the union. An industry trade group, the Hotel Council of San Francisco, publicly denounced his actions. And caught in the cross-fire are the city's treasured tourists. Guests at San Francisco landmark hotels like the Intercontinental Mark Hopkins, the Sheraton Palace and The Fairmont have nervously crossed picket lines, settled for reduced services, endured shouts and taunts and exchanged pillow mints for earplugs. ''I feel sorry for the workers, I feel sorry for the hotel owners and I feel sorry for me,'' said Stephanie DeMars, a visitor from Texas and guest at the Westin St. Francis in fashionable Union Square The contract in question expired in August, setting in motion talks between Unite Here Local 2, the union representing the city's 8,000 hotel workers, including the 4,300 members locked out, and the operators of some of San Francisco's largest, four-star hotels, represented by the San Francisco Multi-Employer Group. Classic bread-and-butter issues were on the table, including wage increases, costs of health benefits, pension changes, a right-to-organize clause and the length of the contract. But talks stalled in September when the union balked at proposed health and pension concessions and hotels refused to discuss the concerns until Local 2 dropped its quest for a two-year contract, to expire in 2006. That is when contracts will expire in nine other cities, including Boston, Chicago and New York. The unions reason that if all 10 cities can negotiate simultaneously, it will give labor the kind of bargaining chip it needs to do battle with the multinational corporations that own the nation's best hotels. ''They are attempting to nationalize the unions,'' said Matthew Adams, vice president of both the hotel negotiating group and the Hyatt Regency here. ''It would cripple our industry and we're simply not going to stand for it.'' To protest the unbudging stance of the hotel group, union workers initiated a two-week strike at four hotels on Sept. 29. Two days later, the 14 hotels retaliated with a lockout. The mayor called last week for a 90-day cooling off period but the hotels, now using replacement workers, refused to let employees return, even though the union strike ended as planned. ''We've never seen this kind of action from the hotels,'' Mayor Newsom said. ''It sends a terrible message to the rest of the country that there is unrest here.'' The mayor, saying that the hotels were ''putting a gun to the head of the city,'' called the lockout a ''huge mistake.'' Michael Casey, president of Local 2, called the continued lockout ''indefensible and unconscionable.'' ''We have said repeatedly that all items are negotiable,'' Mr. Casey said. ''The best thing for the big hotels, the members and the city is to accept a cooling off period and end the lockout.'' Union workers on the picket line last week said they were particularly unhappy with proposed wage increases, calling it ''insulting.'' The union is seeking an increase of 55 cents an hour for each year of a two-year contract for untipped workers and an increase of 45 cents for workers who receive tips. Management has offered an annual wage increase of 20 cents an hour per year for five years, while employees who receive tips would receive an annual raise of 5 cents an hour. The union contends the hotels' proposal would not compensate workers for the extra contribution employers want toward medical costs. Medical contributions for most employees, who now pay $10 per person per month, would gradually increase to $40 per person per month over five years. And the proposed change in eligibility requirements would leave 1,100 families without health benefits, the union said. The hotels declined to give a number, but said it was substantially lower than the union's estimate and they have asked the union to substantiate its claim. Mr. Adams of the hotel group said the hotels had little choice but to seek concessions, given the exploding cost of health care. The hotel group said five-year projections suggested that hotel employers would pay in total an additional $2.6 million a month just to cover San Francisco workers. ''We're not an unlimited resource,'' Mr. Adams said. ''We're simply looking for some level of employee participation.'' He added that with California's new worker compensation laws and tax increases, ''The cost of doing business in San Francisco is tremendous.'' Workers on the picket line at The Fairmont and The Mark Hopkins last week said they were all too familiar with the high cost of living in San Francisco, especially on a wage of $14 to $22 an hour. Reva James-Frye, 53, a city resident and telephone operator at the Fairmont for 15 years, earns nearly $15 an hour, or about $33,000 a year. Roughly half of her paycheck goes toward rent. ''I can barely make ends meet now,'' Ms. James-Frye said. ''What is the point of getting a little 20-cent raise if it's going to go back in their pockets to cover health benefits.'' Guillermina Tremillo, 27, a single mother of a 2-year-old, works two jobs to make ends meet, both at the famed Top of the Mark restaurant. Ms. Tremillo also shares a home with her entire family, including her parents and five sisters, all of whom pool wages. But four of her sisters work at San Francisco hotels and they too have been locked out. ''My feelings are very hurt,'' Ms. Tremillo said. ''I do two jobs so they save one person with me. They make money with me. You give and give the most you can and they just don't care.'' Mr. Adams said, however, that management wanted the employees to return to work. ''A contract can be had in fairly quick order if we can resolve the issue of term,'' he said. The city has already lost business because of the dispute. The American Anthropological Association, for example, decided to move its November conference to Atlanta in support of the union, a decision that has cost the city $3.2 million, according to the San Francisco Convention and Visitors Bureau. With hotel management and the unions so far apart on several issues, the two sides are not expected to reach a contract agreement soon. The union late last week heard that workers would be eligible for unemployment benefits, which the union said could allow workers to withstand the lockout for up to six months. Locked out workers from the Sheraton Palace flew to Waikiki on Friday to set up picket lines and a one-day action at two other Sheraton hotels there, ''to deliver the message that we won't be isolated to San Francisco,'' said Mr. Casey of Local 2. And San Francisco has received a show of support from hotel unions negotiating in Los Angeles and Washington, D.C., where strikes have been authorized but not initiated. ''The point is to get everyone together,'' Ms. James-Frye said. ''There's strength in numbers.''"}