{"title": "Being Stuck on the Nets Is a Hard Place for Kidd", "body_text": "Outside Continental Arena, the few Nets fans this preseason were greeted by radio play-by-play highlights of Jason Kidd's spectacular feats from last season. False advertising? A piece of oral history for eBay? Either way, they could soon be the sounds of silence. This summer, Kidd gave the Nets a list of teams he would rather play for. He said he felt the new ownership -- which traded Kenyon Martin and Kerry Kittles in cost-cutting moves -- reneged on promises made before he re-signed with the Nets in the summer of 2003. The reason he re-signed was simple: he wanted to win a championship. Kidd wants out but cannot get out until he has fully rehabilitated his surgically repaired left knee and can prove that he is still the player he was. He is expected to return in early December, then he and his $90 million contract will be on the trading block again. ''In this profession, things aren't stable,'' Kidd said recently. ''They change like the wind.'' Despite Alonzo Mourning's return Thursday after a kidney transplant, despite the Nets' recommitting to Lawrence Frank (the coach Kidd wanted to take Byron Scott's place), and despite Richard Jefferson's signing a six-year deal this summer, Kidd still sounded doubtful. ''That has nothing to do with what happened this summer,'' he said. ''But if they make the team better, that helps. I can only worry about myself at this point. I can't worry about what they're going to do; I have no control over that.'' The Nets' priority is to keep Kidd because they feel there is a solid core behind him and three first-round draft picks, acquired in the Martin deal, for next season. But, according to several officials in the organization, if the Nets can find a quality long-term replacement for him, then they would rebuild the franchise and the fan base without Kidd as they prepare to move to Brooklyn no later than the 2008-9 season. To start this season, Kidd opened training camp with a salvo when he criticized the Nets' moves. When Kidd, 31, came to the Nets in 2001, he was a leader by example, issuing an ambitious promise. He told his disbelieving teammates, who were coming off a 26-victory season, that they would win 40 games. They won 52, and made it to the first of two N.B.A. finals. In three years, Kidd seems to have gone from savior to spoiler, mirroring a pattern that has marked his career. His competitiveness has been a blessing and a bane. He is so consumed by winning that he often complains when the Nets are losing. His unhappiness with a team's direction has, in part, led to his abrupt departures from the University of California, the Dallas Mavericks and the Phoenix Suns. For the first time this summer, Kidd's voice in the organization did not register with ownership, a divided and disorganized lot that was paying attention to the bottom line instead. Kidd gave them something else to look at when he submitted his wish list, topped by Minnesota, Denver, the Lakers, Houston, Sacramento, San Antonio and Dallas. According to three Eastern Conference executives, only one team would gamble on Kidd's knee without seeing him play first -- Minnesota. Minnesota was offering Wally Szczerbiak, Sam Cassell and Latrell Sprewell, in a deal that at one point included the Knicks. The Nets have shown no interest in Szczerbiak, and Cassell's contract, set to expire next year, does not come close to matching Kidd's. San Antonio, where Kidd nearly signed as a free agent in 2003, declined to trade Tony Parker and Manu Gin\u00f3bili. Sacramento did not want to trade Mike Bibby. The Nets were close to sending Kidd back to his original team, Dallas, in a deal for Antoine Walker, but two people involved in the negotiations said the Mavericks' owner, Mark Cuban, wavered after the Nets gave him too much time to think about it. The Mavs, who will start Devin Harris at point guard, will monitor Kidd's recovery. The Nets had a cursory discussion with Portland, but that was not where Kidd wanted to go. Whether teams will be able to absorb his salary will determine if the Nets can trade Kidd and start looking toward the future. ''We're not going to do a deal unless it makes sense,'' the Nets' president, Rod Thorn, said last week. ''Jason has said that he would like to be with a team that he considers to be a championship-type-contender team. But I think he realizes that in order to enhance his value, that he needs to play and show people he can still be Jason Kidd.'' Thorn added: ''I think Jason is going to be here. His rehab is coming along great, and whenever he gets back, he'll be a terrific boost to the team.'' What else can Thorn say? People close to him say that because he had such a close relationship with Kidd, he has been hurt by his demands. On the other hand, Kidd feels he has been misled. Jefferson said: ''Are we going to be able to win an N.B.A. championship with this team? Maybe not this year.'' ''His window is a lot smaller than mine, so I understand his urgency,'' Jefferson added. ''He could have been with Tim Duncan. Certain things were promised to him and they didn't come through.'' In the summer of 2003, when Duncan and the Spurs nearly wooed Kidd away, the Nets honored Kidd's request by signing Mourning, without a physical and without insurance, to a four-year guaranteed deal for $22.6 million. Mourning, battling a kidney ailment, played 12 games before needing a transplant. He returned in the final preseason game on Thursday night and scored 12 points, but Mourning -- like Kidd -- is not happy with the direction of the Nets. When the new Nets owners and the team's investors butted heads in July over whether to keep Martin or cut costs and rebuild, their indecision led to Denver's offer to Martin. In turn, the decision to trade Martin for three draft picks affected the cornerstone of the Nets' investment -- Kidd. ''I don't think that was a consideration at the time,'' Thorn said of the owners' thinking. The consideration is real now, along with the move to trade Kidd. PRO BASKETBALL"}