{"title": "Child Comes Home Hurt, and Couple Face Jail", "body_text": "The parents say that when their 15-year-old appeared one morning looking as if he had been in a bad fight, they put him to bed and went to work. The police say they should have called an ambulance. Though he did not go to the hospital until later that day, the teenager, Christopher Osbourne, is now at a rehabilitation center in Queens. After spending long hours at his bedside, his mother and stepfather, Carlene Francis and Neville Henry, are facing a year in jail. They were charged in State Supreme Court in the Bronx yesterday -- nearly a month after their son's injury -- with endangering the welfare of a child because they did not take him to the hospital right away. Ms. Francis, 37, and Mr. Henry, 42, would not speak to reporters yesterday when they returned from court, where the judge ordered them released without bail. But neighbors on their quiet residential block in the north Bronx reacted angrily to the criminal charges. Keith Joseph, who said he had been a neighbor of the family for more than a decade, called the accusation ''totally ludicrous and out of order'' and said the police ''did the wrong thing.'' ''We didn't know what was wrong with Chris at the time,'' Mr. Joseph said. ''Nobody did.'' While Mr. Henry, who neighbors said was an auto mechanic, and Ms. Francis, a nurse's aide, were at work that day, Christopher's godmother, Christia Cassis, stopped by the apartment. According to the criminal complaint filed by Robert T. Johnson, the Bronx district attorney, Ms. Cassis saw dried blood on Christopher's body and clothes and two lacerations on his head. She decided his injuries were serious and drove him to Montefiore Medical Center, where he lapsed into a coma for three days. He is in critical condition, the police said yesterday. It is unclear what caused his injury. The couple, who care for two other sons, have no history of child abuse, a spokeswoman for the Administration for Children's Services said yesterday, adding that the agency was now investigating the family. Ms. Francis and Mr. Henry have no previous criminal record, according to their lawyers. ''He was just shocked,'' said Lynn Calvacca, Mr. Henry's lawyer. ''He has no history of any arrests. He's a working man, there are three kids, one that is his and the other two are hers.'' She said that Christopher had been ''very disheveled, very, very, very dirty'' when he returned home that morning, but ''it wasn't something where you would see this person bleeding and obviously in distress.'' She questioned why it had taken the police nearly a month to arrest the couple. A spokesman for Mr. Johnson declined to comment on the timing of the charges. Christopher was taken to the hospital on Oct. 5, the day after he did not return home from a soccer game. His parents said that they assumed he had stayed with an aunt he often visited. But at 7 a.m., an 11-year-old neighbor, Devon Joseph, found him in the vestibule of his building. At that time, Devon and other neighbors said, Christopher was bruised and swollen but conscious and talking. A neighbor took him to his family's door. The police said yesterday that they still did not know exactly what happened to Christopher, who suffered a serious head injury and now does not remember how he got hurt. According to the criminal complaint, Mr. Henry told investigators that when he asked what happened, Christopher, who was covered in grime, said he did not remember. Mr. Henry said he saw blood on Christopher's undershirt. ''After Chris went to the bathroom, he came into the kitchen and laid his head and arms down on the kitchen table,'' Mr. Henry told investigators, according to the criminal complaint. ''I told Chris to go lie down. My wife and I took our other children to school and we went to work.'' The police say that Ms. Francis and Mr. Henry should have known that Christopher needed medical care. Endangering the welfare of a child is a Class A misdemeanor, punishable by up to a year in jail."}