{"title": "Bayern Munich's Top Gun", "body_text": "He has been called a goal-scoring monster, a skillful and prolific poacher who has proved himself in the Netherlands, his homeland, Spain and now Germany. Roy Makaay leads Bayern Munich, the powerhouse team from the Bundesliga, into tomorrow's important European Champions League match against visiting Juventus. Juventus has not lost in nine matches this season in Italy's Serie A, where it leads Inter Milan by 5 points, and it beat Bayern last month in Turin. Bayern got a boost last week when striker Claudio Pizarro and midfielder Michael Ballack returned from injury, but the team will be without Lucio, who is serving a one-game suspension. ''Our first goal is to win the German title and then the Champions League,'' Makaay said in a telephone interview late last week before Bayern lost, 2-0, to struggling Borussia M\u00f6nchengladbach. The defeat left Bayern in fifth place, 4 points behind Wolfsburg. Bayern has won the European title four times and is seeking its fifth Bundesliga title in eight years. Last season, Makaay, who was signed from Deportivo la Coru\u00f1a in Spain for a club-record $36 million transfer fee, did his part in Germany. He scored 23 goals in 32 league matches and 6 more in 8 Champions League games. (Through Saturday's games, Makaay has 40 goals in 58 games for Bayern.) Still, Bayern failed to win any title. ''In Spain, Deportivo won the title for the first time in 2000, but it wasn't that big a deal because people didn't expect anything from us,'' Makaay said. ''Here, in Germany, no one is happy. They expect you to win at least one title every year. When you play in a team like this, you have the expectation and ambition to play at the highest level. This is one of the biggest teams in the world.'' Makaay left the Netherlands -- where he scored 42 goals in 109 league games for Vitesse Arnhem -- for Spain in 1997. He won the Golden Boot as Europe's leading scorer with Deportivo in 2003 when he scored 29 goals. At a solid 6 feet 1 inch, 178 pounds, Makaay is acrobatic enough to pull balls out of the air and slithery enough to slice through a defense and finish with either foot. ''Every striker must have the confidence to believe he can score, and I've scored everywhere I've played -- Holland, Spain and Germany,'' he said. His move from Deportivo to Bayern (he scored three goals for Deportivo against Bayern in a Champions League match in Munich in October 2002) was a bit of a surprise at home. He was the first Dutch national team player to sign to play in the Bundesliga (there are only eight other Dutch players today in the top flight in Germany). The competition -- some would say animosity -- between the two countries goes back many years, an accident of geography, residue of war and the Dutch disappointment at losing the 1974 World Cup final to host Germany. AMERICANS ABROAD  Chasing a Dream Far From Home Chris Cleary watched in the middle of the night last week as his beloved Red Sox won the World Series. Cleary, 25, was thousands of miles away from his home in Milton, Mass., because he is playing soccer for Worksop Town, about 40 miles from Manchester in north-central England. Cleary played at Boston College, where he was captain in 2002, and in the minor leagues in Germany for Karlsruhe. On Oct. 16, he became the first American to score a hat trick in the English F.A. Cup. He followed that with another goal as Worksop, a semiprofessional team in the Nationwide Conference North, played to a 1-1 tie with Alfreton Town in the final qualifying round for the main draw. A victory in today's replay would give Worksop an $18,000 payday and a home match against Macclesfield Town in the first round. ''This is a steppingstone for me, a chance to get healthy and fit,'' Cleary said in a telephone interview. ''It's not about the money but about playing at the highest level I can. I was making great headway in Germany, scoring bunches of goals, then I hurt my knee.'' Cleary is paid game to game and has the freedom to leave at any time. His team, which is coached by the former Glasgow Celtic player Ronnie Glavin, has had inquires about Clearly from Wrexham, Doncaster, Crewe and Sheffield United. ''You're only young once and this is only a few months in a lifetime, a chance for me to chase my dream,'' Cleary said. ''After scoring the hat trick, I had e-mails from 15 coaches I've never met and guys I played with in high school. It's amazing and great, and hopefully it will help get me where I want to go.'' ARSENAL -- Daniel Karbassiyoon, an 18-year-old striker, scored his first goal for the senior team, the game-winner in the 90th minute, in the Gunners' F.A. Cup victory over Manchester City. Arsenal has sent Frank Simek, a defender, on loan to Queens Park Rangers for a month. GERMANY -- Clint Mathis has not played in the last five games for Hannover. A striker who starred for the MetroStars, Mathis last saw action in the Bundesliga on Sept. 28, leaving a match against Arminia Bielefeld in the 71st minute. Hannover is in third place. M.L.S.  It's Down to the Final Four The four teams that advanced to the Major League Soccer semifinals have one thing in common -- their two-letter initials. D.C., N.E., K.C. and L.A. In the Eastern Conference, D.C. United sent the MetroStars home after the first round for the eighth time in nine years. United will play host to New England on Saturday, but without Ryan Nelsen, its captain and veteran defender, and Dema Kovalenko, the feisty midfielder. They will serve one-game suspensions after getting their second yellow cards of the playoffs. United, the hottest team in the playoffs, has won five straight games and seven of eight, allowing only four goals in those eight games. The Revolution, a team that has scrambled to qualify for the postseason the last three seasons, eliminated Columbus. The Crew entered the playoffs riding an record 18-game unbeaten streak, but New England goalkeeper Matt Reis stopped two poorly taken penalty kicks, and Taylor Twellman scored a goal in the second half as the Revolution won the series, 2-1 on aggregate. In the Western Conference, Kansas City rallied from a two-goal deficit to eliminate San Jose, the defending champion, on Jack Jewsbury's goal in injury time. The Wizards announced yesterday that all tickets for Friday's match at Arrowhead Stadium against Los Angeles will cost $5. Unlike the quarterfinals (home and away, total goals), the semifinals are a single match. If tied after 90 minutes, the teams will play sudden death for a maximum 30 minutes. If still tied, the match will be settled with penalty kicks. SOCCER REPORT"}