{"title": "Field of 36,000 Has Its Local Critics", "body_text": "Now that twice as many people attempt to enter the New York City Marathon as are accepted through a lottery system, some local runners have begun to feel squeezed out of autumn's pre-eminent 26.2-mile race. Some 78,000 runners applied for a spot in Sunday's field of 36,000, according to organizers, who say they try to split the race into equal parts international, national and local. The race's popularity has brought an inevitable clash of perspectives. Organizers say they want to accommodate New Yorkers, but they also want the race to reflect the city's diversity and to serve as a postcard for tourism. Meanwhile, some local runners say they feel excluded from a race that courses through the place where they live and train and pay taxes. ''New York is the most diverse, multicultural city in the world,'' said Mary Wittenberg, associate director of the marathon. ''We shouldn't have an event of this magnitude that does anything but reflect the city. Our tag line has been, 'Where the world comes to run.''' The race pumps about $150 million into the local economy; national and international runners stay in the city's hotels, eat in its restaurants and visit Broadway and other attractions, race organizers said. Most of the approximately 12,000 international runners who enter do so through tour-group packages, not through the lottery. These runners pay $110 to $200 for guaranteed entry, organizers said. Members of the New York Road Runners, the club that organizes the race, pay a $70 entry fee, while other American runners pay $80. Some New Yorkers say outsiders are given preferential treatment. Those critics are seeking greater access to the marathon because, they say, it is a local race and their taxes help pay for the thousands of police, fire, emergency and custodial personnel employed on race day. ''This is not a private race,'' Richard Wright, 31, of Manhattan, said in a telephone interview. ''It's like universities, who give preference to people who live in-state. Why? Because they pay taxes.'' Wright said he ran the New York City Marathon last year, gaining a lottery entry after two earlier failures. He has started a Web site -- rrny.org -- and is asking runners to sign an online petition in an attempt to ensure better opportunities for local participants. One who signed the petition is Maxine Joyner, 52, of Manhattan, who works as a volunteer at the marathon. ''I know a lot of New Yorkers who can't get a space; it's sad,'' Joyner said in a telephone interview. ''It's not the New York City Marathon; it's only held here.'' Being a New York City taxpayer doesn't guarantee entry into the marathon any more than it guarantees entry into Yankee Stadium, said Allan Steinfeld, director of the marathon and president of the road runners club. Still, organizers say they are sensitive to the concerns of locals and have implemented several ways to facilitate entry. One, athletes can join the New York Road Runners and run nine club-sponsored races -- from 1 mile to 26.2 miles in a calendar year -- and gain automatic entry into the New York City Marathon the next year. About 4,500 runners have entered the marathon through this method in each of the past two years, Wittenberg, the associate race director, said. Two, runners can gain automatic entry by meeting time standards posted on the club's Web site, nyrrc.org. For instance, a man between 40 and 49 who runs any marathon in three hours or any half-marathon in 1 hour 24 minutes this year gets a guaranteed spot in the 2005 New York City Marathon. Three, any runner who fails to get into the race via the lottery for three consecutive years is guaranteed a spot in the fourth year. Also, runners who cancel before his year's race -- as late as the night before -- are entered next year. Those who have completed 15 or more New York City Marathons are also given automatic entry. ''If you are a committed New Yorker and plan one and a half years in advance, you get in the race,'' Wittenberg said. ''That's not true anywhere else.'' Of the 30,000 entrants from the New York City/New Jersey/Connecticut region, about 17,000 were accepted this year, with expectations that several thousand of them would not show up for the race, organizers said. Some locals believe the time standards are too stringent for many recreational runners. Others say they don't have the time or the money to join New York Road Runners, which charges $35 for a membership and $11 to $22 to run in each of nine club-sponsored races, just for a chance to enter the marathon. Others accuse race officials of profiteering, but organizers note that New York Road Runners is a nonprofit organization. The New York City Marathon accounted for $13.5 million of the running club's $22 million in revenue for 2003, club officials said. Any profit is reinvested to help finance the more than 60 other races the club sponsors yearly, as well as exercise classes, nutrition lectures and walking classes that the club manages as part of its larger mission to promote health and fitness in the city, club officials said. One way to include more local runners in the marathon would be to increase the size of the field to, say, 50,000 entrants. But organizers say this would exacerbate crowding -- at the staging area at Fort Wadsworth on Staten Island, at the start of the race on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and at the finish line in Central Park -- and could lead to jostling of runners at water stations and narrower spots along the course. The lottery system was introduced in the early 1980's, as the field continued to swell annually from the inaugural entry of 127 runners in 1970. The New York Road Runners does not hire an outside auditor to conduct the lottery, but rather uses a computerized system that attempts to fairly select a broad-based field of entrants, organizers said. The Web site started by Wright has provoked vigorous debate. Some who think the system works just fine accuse supposedly sophisticated locals of being parochial whiners. ''What are you New Yorkers going to hog next? Poetry?'' wrote one person under the alias Killertomato. MARATHON"}