{"title": "I.R.S. Reveals Less Cheating By Businesses, Its Data Show", "body_text": "The push by the commissioner of Internal Revenue for quick completion of audits of big corporations -- a move criticized by many longtime agency auditors -- has led to a sharp drop in the discovery of tax cheating at the 11,000 largest businesses, new I.R.S. data indicated. The data indicated that the amount of additional taxes recommended after audits at the biggest companies would be down more than $8.5 billion in fiscal 2004 from the previous year, a decline of almost 70 percent. Hours spent per audit of the largest corporations, those with assets of $250 million or more, fell by a third, to 783 hours per audit from 1,164. The additional tax recommended per audit fell 69 percent, to $1.1 million, from almost $3.7 million. The data compare audit figures for fiscal 2003 to the annual rate for the first six months of fiscal 2004, the period from Oct. 1, 2003, to March 31, 2004. Leaders of the National Treasury Employees Union, which represents most I.R.S. workers, as well as dozens of I.R.S. corporate auditors, have complained about orders to close audits quickly without regard to how much additional tax might be owed. Auditors warned that the practice would cost the government billions of dollars while rewarding tax cheats at the expense of honest taxpayers. In voice-mail messages to the audit staff, the I.R.S. management acknowledged the complaints but insisted that requiring auditors to close cases quickly would not have a negative effect on uncovering tax cheating or on tax revenues. Susan V. Long, an associate professor of management information at Syracuse University and co-director of the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, which received the figures from the I.R.S., said the data showed how Congress encouraged tax cheats, and hurt taxpayers, by steadily reducing the resources available for audits. ''This data matters if you care about what corporate America is doing and if you care about whether big companies are made to abide by the same set of laws that us ordinary citizens do,'' Professor Long said. ''This data shows that the length of audit time for the audits of the big guys is really decreasing and that raises questions, clearly, about how thorough audits are and the time pressures the agency is under to produce numbers'' rather than quality law enforcement, she said. A senior I.R.S. spokesman, Terry L. Lemons, said that no one should pay attention to the new data, which he said was ''unreliable because of seasonal factors'' that affect audit rates. Professor Long scoffed at the assertion. She said that for years before the I.R.S. reorganization in 1998, she received quarterly reports of corporate audit activity and found no seasonal variations. ''I have a court order requiring the I.R.S. to give me this data'' every quarter, she said. But in recent years the I.R.S. has provided only annual figures, until Friday when Professor Long said she was given data for the first half of fiscal 2004. Mr. Lemons said that the agency was confident that when data for all of fiscal 2004 came in, it would show a rise in total additional taxes recommended for corporations with more than $10 million of assets. He said audits of corporations with less than $10 million in assets, which are mostly family-owned enterprises, were likely to be down because many auditors had been shifted to pursuing cheating by high-income individuals, especially those secretly using offshore bank accounts. He said that Mark W. Everson, the tax commissioner, was focusing I.R.S. auditors on ''making sure we turn around'' corporate audits more quickly and focus on returns likely to involve cheating. When the data for all of fiscal 2004 are in, Mr. Lemons said, ''audit coverage will be up and the average dollars for large corporations will be up.'' He also predicted that a record amount of money would be brought in through enforcement actions, like audits and collections of past-due taxes. For fiscal 2003, the I.R.S. reported $37 billion collected through enforcement actions, a figure that Mr. Lemons said he was confident would rise by at least 10 percent for fiscal 2004, to more than $40 billion. Over all, the I.R.S. collects about $2 trillion, nearly all of it through voluntary compliance with the tax laws. Correction:  November 3, 2004, Wednesday  An article in Business Day yesterday about the effort by the Internal Revenue Service to speed the completion of audits at big corporations, a step that led to a sharp drop in the discovery of cheating, misstated the value of additional taxes owed by the 11,000 largest companies after the examinations. The overall decline for the 2004 fiscal year, compared with 2003, is expected to be $4.8 billion, not $8.5 billion; the average additional tax per audit is expected to decline by $1.4 million, not $2.5 million."}