{"title": "A Veteran Finds an Ally in His Inner War", "body_text": "No matter how bad a day Ralph Burkhardt has, he ends it with a chuckle. He could certainly use a good laugh after what he endured this year: so depressed that he almost flung himself off a rooftop, he checked into a psychiatric ward and wound up living in homeless shelters. Now jobless and staying at a Bronx residence for military veterans who have hit hard times, Mr. Burkhardt comes home each night to the sight of the man who reminds him to keep smiling. There, taped to the otherwise drab metal door to his room is his own small drawing of a longhaired man letting out a belly laugh. If the man looks vaguely familiar, that's because he is. The smile belongs to Jesus. A dozen years ago, Mr. Burkhardt persuaded an Episcopal priest in a rough-and-tumble South Bronx neighborhood to put a larger version of the drawing on the steeple, as if to dispel the demons of everyday life. Now, after his own journey through mental illness and homelessness, Mr. Burkhardt has a more personal appreciation for the drawing (which he said he originally copied from an illustration in Playboy magazine). Mr. Burkhardt likes to think the laugh came right after Jesus turned water into wine during the wedding feast at Cana. ''I think he just changed the water into wine, when he looks at his chalice and there's nothing in it,'' he said. ''He's laughing and saying 'Hey, guys, fill me up. Don't forget about me.''' Go tell it on the mountain? He could, if he wanted to, since Mr. Burkhardt likes to spend days camping out on five wooded acres that he owns with a dazzling view overlooking the Schoharie Reservoir in upstate New York. For now, however, he is preparing to put a restored drawing of the laughing Jesus at Grace Episcopal Church on City Island, where he is a parishioner. ''Jesus didn't just suffer for us; he laughed, too,'' Mr. Burkhardt said. ''If Jesus returned to the world and went to a church, the first thing he'd see would be himself on the cross. Is that all he wanted to be remembered for?'' His own memories of recent years had slowly, but steadily, nudged him into depression. It started, he said, with his father's death in 1997. It continued through disappointment over an inheritance that never materialized and his being forced to sell some off some properties on City Island to pay back taxes. Mr. Burkhardt, 58, always thought of himself as a regular guy who spent much of his life managing construction projects at high-end stores and the homes of people whose names usually appear in boldface print. He had passed over a job at the World Trade Center that would have started in September 2001. He lost some friends in the terrorist attacks. Other people he knew passed away in the following years. Last April, during a season when most people are thinking of life, he was contemplating death. He could not hold down a job, relations with his former wife were rocky and he faced losing his crash pad at his former brother-in-law's house. During a medical appointment, he told his doctor about the thoughts. Within hours, he said, he was in the veterans' hospital in the Bronx. What could have been the end became a new beginning, as he came to realize he was suffering from depression. One counselor at the hospital showed him how to sign up for benefits that were due to him as an Army veteran. He is just as grateful for the consideration shown by two case workers at the homeless shelter on Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn, where he lived for a while after being discharged from the hospital. For someone who had hardly ventured to Brooklyn in the good days, living in the shelter was almost surreal. Thefts were rampant, and tempers ran high. He acted tough, even if his words betrayed his attitude. ''There was this little Spanish guy walking around going, 'Lucy! Lucy! Lucy!''' Mr. Burkhardt recalled. ''I said to somebody, 'This guy must miss his girlfriend.' The guy told me, 'No. He's selling loosies, loose cigarettes.' That's how na\u00efve I was.'' But rather than spend his days in day-room limbo, where six radios blared at once, he made sure to make the rounds to get back out on his own: medical appointments, psychiatric sessions, counseling, whatever it took. ''I did what I had to do,'' he said. ''I stood on lines.'' His efforts, several dozen appointments in a few weeks, first paid off with a transfer to a veterans' shelter in Queens, where life was more orderly, if not more hopeful. Another counselor there helped him make his way back to the Bronx, where he moved in midsummer to the New Era Veterans Residence in Soundview. Between the milk crates filled with file folders and the drafting table stuck by the bed, there is hardly space to move inside his new room. Mr. Burkhardt talks about his plans: he wants to organize a tenant group at the residence, where he already has planted a small garden. The files hold several manuscripts he is working on, including one about his dog Lucky (whose name didn't help when a driver ran him over on City Island). Most days, he is trying to show others how to make those small steps toward a normal life. ''Ralph's journey is an interesting one, because he is upfront about his issues, including his mental illness,'' said Jason Ortiz, a senior case manager at the residence. ''Everyone here has gotten into a situation to get here. A lot of them don't fight and just become displaced. Ralph didn't do that. Even when it did not look positive, he kept going. He fought to get out of the shelters.'' He also fought to cling to his little plot upstate, even when he was in the psychiatric ward and in shelters. Longing for what he thought was the view's therapeutic power, he cadged overnight passes and roughed it under the stars. The key word is rough: his patch is at the end of a rutted gravel road, where a tent is pitched under a series of sail-like tarps he has rigged to trees. Logs tossed in a flaming pile serve as radiator and stove. A bucket is his bathroom. But the view -- as sure a sign of the divine as any -- is worth it. ''This is my piece of heaven,'' he said. ''I thought of putting the laughing Jesus here, but nobody would see it. My closest neighbor is two and a half miles away. You start hearing buzzing in your ears here, it is so quiet.'' Instead, he'll bring it to City Island, where the new pastor of Grace Episcopal Church is already intrigued. ''This is a parish desperately trying to come back from being nearly closed,'' said the Rev. Patricia Alexander, who arrived at Grace six weeks ago. ''Anything we can do to draw people is exciting.'' A few days ago at the veterans' residence, Mr. Burkhardt was finishing up retouching the picture. He left it in the hallway while he ran a quick errand. Another man walked by and looked at it, puzzled. ''A laughing Jesus?'' the man said. ''I don't know about that.'' That's O.K. Ralph Burkhardt does, and then some. CITYWIDE"}