{"title": "American Is Among 4 Captives Seized in Baghdad Kidnapping", "body_text": "Kidnappers armed with AK-47's and rocket-propelled grenades stormed an office in western Baghdad on Monday, overpowering the armed guards and capturing four people, including an American, Iraqi police officials said. One Iraqi guard and one attacker were killed, officials said. Besides the American, those taken hostage were a Nepali and two Arabs from outside Iraq. ''They stormed the villa with automatic rifles and rocket-propelled grenades,'' one police official told Reuters. ''They had no chance.'' News agencies reported that the four captives worked for the Saudi Arabian Trading and Contracting Company, a Riyadh-based company owned by Saudi and Lebanese businessmen that supplies American forces in Iraq, though there was no immediate confirmation of that. The American was not identified, and by early Tuesday no one had claimed responsibility for the kidnapping. Earlier on Monday, gunmen ambushed and killed the deputy governor of Baghdad Province, Hatim Kamil, as he drove to work. Two of Mr. Kamil's bodyguards were wounded, the police said. Insurgents have stepped up a campaign of assassinations against Iraqi government officials, a tactic that is draining the country of its skilled bureaucrats and has American military officials increasingly worried. In the provincial capital, Ramadi, a freelance cameraman working for Reuters was killed, apparently by a sniper, possibly an American marine. The violence across Iraq unfolded as negotiations continued over a peace agreement to avert a planned American invasion of Falluja, the insurgent stronghold 35 miles west of the capital. In an interview with a Kuwaiti newspaper, the Iraqi president, Sheik Ghazi al-Yawar, said talks must continue, and that insurgents ''want nothing but a military solution and the continuation of bleeding for Iraqis.'' His comments were a sharp contrast to those of Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, who on Sunday warned that time was running out for a peaceful solution and that he was quite willing to order an invasion. ''I completely disagree with those who see a need to decide the matter through military action,'' the president told the daily Al Qabas. ''The coalition's handling of this crisis is wrong. It's like someone who shoots at his horse's head just because a fly has landed on it. The fly escapes and the horse is dead.'' Early Tuesday, the American military said it had conducted an airstrike around midnight in Falluja that had destroyed a weapons cache. The Marines have been carrying out airstrikes on the city almost daily and have been amassing forces in the area to prepare for an attempt to sweep through both Falluja and Ramadi, 30 miles farther west. Military commanders say they believe thousands of insurgents are building up fortifications in Falluja. With Iraq's first general elections scheduled for January, American and Iraqi officials say major rebel cities must be brought under government control to ensure wide voter turnout and legitimate results. About 4,000 new American troops began arriving in Iraq on Monday to reinforce the 138,000 troops already here in advance of the elections. Voter and party registration began on Monday across Iraq. Adel al-Lami, a supervisor at the Iraqi electoral commission, said a ''very limited'' number of parties showed up in Baghdad's fortified Green Zone to register because it was only the first day. The deadline is the end of the month. Voter registration seemed somewhat problematic. An estimated 14 million Iraqis are eligible to vote, and registration lists are supposed to be presented to the heads of households at centers where Iraqis go to collect their monthly food rations. But an Iraqi reporter who went to 10 of those centers in Baghdad found no lists being given out, although people were walking out of the centers with rice, sugar, milk and other foodstuffs. At four of the food distribution centers, in the Sunni-dominated Adhamiya neighborhood of Baghdad, Iraqis received notices informing them of the importance of taking part in the elections. Asked about the absence of registration lists, Mr. Lami said he was surprised. ''I'll check on it,'' he said. ''As far as I know, they should be distributed with the food rations today.'' In Ramadi, the capital of Anbar Province, a cameraman, Dhia Najim, was killed while covering fighting, Reuters reported. He was a freelancer from Ramadi and had worked for The Associated Press and Reuters, among other news agencies. His death was under investigation. The Committee to Protect Journalists, based in New York, estimated that 36 journalists had been killed in the war, including 19 dying from insurgent actions and at least 8 from American fire. Also in Ramadi, insurgents attacked Army military vehicle patrols in town, a spokesman for the Second Brigade Combat Team said at Camp Ramadi. Late in the afternoon, insurgents launched what appeared to be 8 to 10 mortars or rockets into the base, wounding two servicemen. The projectile that caused the injuries left a two-foot-deep crater near one of the base's more heavily traveled roads. The Baghdad neighborhood where the kidnappings of the four foreigners took place, Mansour, a suburb of elegant homes west of the Tigris River, has recently experienced a spike in violence. On Sunday, insurgents detonated a car bomb right outside the offices there of Al Arabiya, a popular Arab television news network based in Dubai. The explosion collapsed part of the building and killed at least 7 people, 5 of them network employees, and wounded 19. In September, a band of kidnappers staged a dawn raid on a house and office in Mansour used by two American engineers and a Briton. The men were taken as two of them walked outside their compound to start up a power generator, witnesses said. Later, all three men appeared in a video made by the militant group led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. When the American-led forces refused to meet the demands of Mr. Zarqawi, his group beheaded the two Americans, Eugene Armstrong and Jack Hensley, and later the Briton, Kenneth Bigley. Mansour is home to many Iraqi officials, as well as Ahmad Chalabi, the former political exile once favored by the Pentagon, and Adnan Pachachi, a prominent member of the former Iraqi Governing Council who plans to contest the January elections. More than 160 foreigners have been kidnapped in the country since April, when a two-front uprising exploded in Iraq. Most have been released after the captives' countries or companies agreed to make payments. Dozens have been killed, including three Americans. Mr. Zarqawi's group claimed responsibility for all three of those deaths and released videos of their beheadings. The hostage-taking has crippled foreign efforts to help rebuild Iraq, driving foreigners almost entirely off the streets and into the illusory sanctuaries of private homes or hotels, if not out of the country altogether. THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: INSURGENCY"}