{"title": "Medicare Takes Steps Broadening Coverage of Cancer Care", "body_text": "The agency that runs the Medicare program said Monday that it was creating a demonstration project in which cancer doctors will be paid to measure how their patients feel during chemotherapy. In another of a series of relatively small steps involving cancer treatment, the agency, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, proposed paying for a variety of colon cancer drugs when those medications are used in any of nine clinical trials that will test their effectiveness against other cancers. The announcement on Monday provided a further glimpse into changes in Medicare's operation that would be likely to continue if President Bush were re-elected. The most significant of the new steps involves spending $300 million on the nationwide demonstration program next year to gauge how patients feel during treatment. In return for $130 a patient per day, oncologists will collect information about three conditions: pain; nausea and vomiting; and fatigue. The project grew out of a sharp dispute between Medicare officials and cancer doctors over reimbursement. The Medicare legislation enacted last year made significant changes in the way those doctors are paid, a modification that threatened to cut their incomes substantially. The doctors argued that the program was not paying them enough for the many things they did to enhance patients' quality of life. In announcing the $300 million project on Monday, Dr. Mark B. McClellan, the agency's administrator, offered the kind of split-the-difference approach that he has been making a hallmark of his tenure: the oncologists will get much of the money they have demanded for care they give to improve patients' quality of life, but only if they collect data about how well their efforts are working. And the test will last only one year. ''This is really about developing better evidence,'' Dr. McClellan said. ''We're not just giving doctors more money.'' Dr. Joseph Bailes, co-chairman of the government relations committee for the American Society of Clinical Oncology, said the project was ''an important recognition that the resources have to be there to care for individuals with cancer.'' For decades, Medicare has chosen either to pay for a therapy or not to pay, to pay doctors more or not, with little in between. And once the agency decided to pay for drugs, physicians could largely use them how they wished. But Dr. McClellan is increasingly agreeing to pay for unproven treatments only for those who agree to participate in clinical trials. So it was Monday, when he announced that Medicare had joined with the National Cancer Institute to finance the nine trials of approved cancer drugs for unapproved uses. The trials, laid out in a proposal that will now be subject to a period of public comment before final adoption, will involve 2,000 to 3,000 patients, a tiny fraction of the roughly 40 million people in the Medicare program. Even for these patients, Medicare's decision will most likely have little effect, since most cancer patients who participate in clinical trials sponsored by the cancer institute have their care paid for as a condition of joining the trial. But Medicare's involvement will speed the trials, Dr. McClellan said. ''Our goal is to get to the answer faster,'' he said, ''as to whether or not these treatments are beneficial or not.'' The drugs at issue are Erbitux, from ImClone Systems; Avastin, from Genentech; Camptosar, from Pfizer; and Eloxatin, from Sanofi-Synthelabo. In addition, the agency said, Medicare will now pay for positron emission tomography, or PET scans, for cervical cancer and for studies of the scans' uses in other cancers."}