{"title": "Venture Firms Say Billions Were Raised In 3rd Quarter", "body_text": "Venture capital firms raised $5.54 billion in the third quarter, a 78 percent spike in fund-raising over the second quarter. That huge increase is already stirring worries that venture capitalists will soon be rushing to finance start-ups with dubious business prospects simply because the money is there. The data, released on Monday by the National Venture Capital Association and Thomson Venture Economics, drew a mixed reaction from the association's president, Mark G. Heesen. While Mr. Heesen praised venture investing as consistently providing strong returns, he warned venture capitalists to avoid the temptation of raising ever-larger funds in the coming months. ''If the industry begins to take more money than can be invested successfully, performance will suffer,'' Mr. Heesen said. Steven Dow, a venture capitalist with Sevin Rosen in Palo Alto, Calif., was not so circumspect. ''I think it's horrible news,'' Mr. Dow said of the increase in dollars raised. ''I think it's going to be very hard for the industry as a whole to make good returns when the committed capital in a given year exceeds $10 billion to $12 billion. And we're on a pace roughly double that.'' Mr. Dow's own firm raised a new $300 million fund in July. ''I think at the macro level it's obvious to everyone that there's too much money in this asset class,'' Mr. Dow said. ''But at the micro level of course every firm thinks it's different.'' The growth in venture fund-raising came as no surprise to Catherine A. Crockett, a managing director at Grove Street Advisors, a firm in Wellesley, Mass., that invests in venture capital funds on behalf of wealthy clients. ''Fund-raising in venture has been way off for the last several years, which is a good thing,'' Ms. Crockett said. ''So everyone was expecting that there was going to be some uptick taking place around now.'' ''I think if we continue to see these high numbers, that would be a trend that concerned me,'' she added. Steven P. Bird, a partner at Focus Ventures in Palo Alto, also expected a bump in venture fund-raising given that the venture industry raised only $3.66 billion in 2002, according to Thomson Venture Economics and the National Venture Capital Association, and $10.53 billion in 2003. That follows $38.06 billion raised in 2001, and $106.03 billion raised in 2000 -- sums so large that venture firms collectively still have tens of billions of extra cash on hand. ''The industry was investing a lot more than it had been raising for two and a half years,'' Mr. Bird said. Now the opposite is starting to happen. The news dominating the venture industry last week was a pair of reports showing that investments in start-ups had fallen sharply in the third quarter. Thomson Venture Economics and the venture capitalists' association, along with PricewaterhouseCoopers, reported that venture capitalists invested $4.3 billion in the third quarter, which means the industry raised $1.2 billion more than it spent in the quarter. ''We shouldn't get too carried away based on one quarter's numbers,'' Mr. Bird said. ''But if you call back in a few quarters and tell me fund-raising's up another 78 percent, then we'll have a real problem.'' TECHNOLOGY"}