{"title": "Spotlight | N.B.A.; SEASON PREVIEW", "body_text": "Eastern Conference TITLE CONTENDER 1. DETROIT PISTONS -- The defending champion Pistons changed little in the off-season, which is why they should conquer the East again. With the core of supposed nonsuperstars returning to Coach Larry Brown's system (losing only Corliss Williamson and Mehmet Okur), Detroit added an X-factor in the refurbished forward Antonio McDyess. If McDyess can return to his explosive form of four years ago, the Pistons' frontcourt, led by the Wallaces, Ben and Rasheed, should be indomitable. Guards Richard Hamilton and Chauncey Billups, the most valuable player of the finals, are becoming household names. Fame and the San Antonio Spurs are the only things that could foil a Pistons repeat. PLAYOFF BOUND 2. INDIANA PACERS -- The Pacers won a league-best 61 games last season, but now the roster reads like a list of doctors' rounds. Reggie Miller's broken hand will keep him out for the first two months of the season. Jermaine O'Neal's left foot will keep him out at least five games, and then there is Jeff Foster (hip surgery), Anthony Johnson (broken hand), and Jonathan Bender (left knee). The key off-season pickup, Stephen Jackson, dazzles offensively when he focuses and Ron Artest dazzles defensively when he focuses, but Indiana's instability is at point guard. 3. MIAMI HEAT -- Shaquille O'Neal remains the league's most dominant player, more so now that he is about 35 pounds lighter. Now Dwyane Wade is his respectful wingman, and Pat Riley is betting the full house on the fact that neither gets injured. The veteran Eddie Jones could be the glue. Riley acquired a collection of shooters -- Damon Jones, Keyon Dooling, Wesley Person -- to supplement the young forwards Rasual Butler and Udonis Haslem. 4. PHILADELPHIA 76ERS -- Allen Iverson has a new coach in Jim O'Brien, who, for now, loves his guard as much as he loves being back in his hometown. The veterans Aaron McKie and Marc Jackson bolster the starting lineup. The Sixers say they are trying to trade Glenn Robinson. The second-year center Samuel Dalembert will fight for his starting job and may be a year away. Corliss Williamson adds toughness. Iverson will still call, and take, the shots. If more than a third go in, the Sixers could beat out the Knicks to win the Atlantic Division. 5. CLEVELAND CAVALIERS -- Every winner needs a 1-2 punch, and the Cavaliers have it in the superstar LeBron James and center Zydrunas Ilgauskas, the only true center in the East after O'Neal. The Cavs acquired point guard Eric Snow, who ran the show in Philadelphia. His presence should help soften the blow of the inexcusable loss of Carlos Boozer. The Cavs' fortunes follow the arc of James's shot. 6. ORLANDO MAGIC -- The Magic could be the surprise team in the East. Steve Francis is again the focal point. The No. 1 pick Dwight Howard could be the rookie of the year, and Grant Hill could be the comeback player of the year. Look for Hedo Turkoglu and the rookie Jameer Nelson off the bench. 7. KNICKS -- After a blip of a playoff run, a new season brings old problems --  Allan Houston's left knee, the lack of a low-post presence. There is hope, as Jamal Crawford brings scoring excitement to the Garden. Wait, isn't that what Stephon Marbury was supposed to do? Suspect defense and a losing streak could unleash some bad attitudes (Coach Lenny Wilkens, beware) as Isiah Thomas keeps trying to find the long, athletic players that work in his system. PLAYOFF BUBBLE 8. BOSTON CELTICS -- Doc Rivers will live off the Beantown karma in his first  season back on the sideline. The Celtics are anchored by the Boston stalwart Paul Pierce and boosted by Gary Payton and forward Raef LaFrentz, back from injury. This team could fall apart as easily as it could surprise, and General Manager Danny Ainge is under the gun. 9. NETS -- Jason Kidd wants out, and the team's fortunes ultimately hinge on which franchise will be willing to take on his contract and make the right deal in return. He is working to get back on the court quickly after knee surgery. Richard Jefferson is the de facto franchise player, and Eric Williams and Ron Mercer were solid pickups. LOTTERY LAND 10. MILWAUKEE BUCKS -- There is still no timetable for T.J. Ford to return from his surgery in May to repair a spinal cord bruise, and this team will suffer, despite the coaching of Terry Porter. Keith Van Horn, Toni Kukoc and Joe Smith make an odd offensive threesome. Mike James (from the Pistons) was the biggest off-season acquisition. 11. CHICAGO BULLS -- The Bulls are rebuilding for the sixth straight season. It is past time for the youngsters Eddy Curry and Tyson Chandler to grow up, although Chicago got younger with the rookies Luol Deng and Ben Gordon. Andres Nocioni, the gold medalist from Argentina, could be the breakout international player of the year. 12. WASHINGTON WIZARDS -- The Wizards had a key off-season pickup in Antawn Jamison, who rejoined his former Golden State mates Gilbert Arenas and Larry Hughes to see if the partnership works better than it did in the West. Jarvis Hayes is intriguing. 13. TORONTO RAPTORS -- Just when there is no ''Hockey Night in Canada,'' Vince Carter wants out of Toronto. Jalen Rose is reliable, and the second-year center Chris Bosh is quickly improving. The new coach, Sam Mitchell, has no easy task. 14. ATLANTA HAWKS -- Antoine Walker and Al Harrington joined the Hawks in a trade, and Kenny Anderson is back in his college town. The club is under new ownership and new sideline direction but still under construction. 15. CHARLOTTE BOBCATS -- A collection of has-beens, wanna-bees and aboutto-bees starts from the ground up and will not get very far in this first year back in the Queen City. Western Conference TITLE CONTENDERS 1. SAN ANTONIO SPURS -- The Spurs are so well constructed that their best off-season pickup, the shooting guard Brent Barry, comes off the bench. Throw his preseason bricks out the window. Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili surround Tim Duncan, the game's most complete player, who is so thankful to be playing with three N.B.A. referees that he hopes to erase whatever bad feelings remain from the Olympics. This is the team that can best take advantage of Shaquille O'Neal's departure from the West. Look for Coach Gregg Popovich to meet his friend Larry Brown, whom he summered with, in the finals. And win. 2. MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES -- Kevin Garnett, the reigning most valuable player, will again contend with O'Neal for the honor as his game continues to soar. The Timberwolves were closer than ever last season, and with a healthy Sam Cassell and solid depth (Fred Hoiberg, Ervin Johnson), they could vie for the conference title. But with Cassell and Latrell Sprewell griping over contracts, the roster is unsettled. Do not expect it to remain the same. Minnesota has its eye on Jason Kidd, a scary thought. PLAYOFF BOUND 3. HOUSTON ROCKETS -- Do not anoint Yao Ming yet. Ming, the 7-foot-6 center from China, is in only his third season and still must overcome some defensive weaknesses before he can be the dominating center of the West. But now he has a wingman in Tracy McGrady to make this the new top inside-outside combo in the league. Will McGrady give in to the concept of giving Ming the ball? Charlie Ward is back running the point under his old coach, Jeff van Gundy, and his job is simple -- make sure Yao gets the ball. Jim Jackson provides a key shooting presence. 4. DENVER NUGGETS -- The Nuggets will not be boring. They will be running, flying and high-fiving in the high altitude. As long as Carmelo Anthony stays grounded in his second season, the Nuggets will be a legitimate force. Kenyon Martin got his huge deal and said he had no problem sharing the ball with Anthony and Andre Miller. Marcus Camby got his deal, too, making the Nuggets solid almost everywhere. 5. LOS ANGELES LAKERS -- Kobe Bryant got what he wanted. His team. All the shots he's fit to take. Coach Rudy Tomjanovich is back on the sideline to make sense of the aftermath of the Lakers' implosion. It may not be pretty. Vlade Divac is injured, aging, but not quite finished. Chucky Atkins was a downgrade from Derek Fisher and Gary Payton. Forward Lamar Odom, a complete player with a selfless attitude, was a nice consolation in the trade for O'Neal. But he will be no replacement for the real thing, as Bryant will realize by the time he sees his old friend at the All-Star Game break. 6. SACRAMENTO KINGS -- Cracks developed along the fault line this summer, with Peja Stojakovic expressing his desire to be traded and Chris Webber continuing to whine. The Kings did not give Coach Rick Adelman an extension, a telling sign to produce or pack. Still, with Mike Bibby at the point, Doug Christie shooting reliably and Brad Miller at center (with Greg Ostertag his backup), the Kings have enough to stay in the upper echelon but not enough to break through. 7. MEMPHIS GRIZZLIES -- Pau Gasol, whose stock rose after his Olympics with Spain, leads a young, athletic team. Jason Williams jelled with Coach Hubie Brown last season, and Mike Miller and Bonzi Wells provided shooting spark. The Grizzlies picked up Brian Cardinal, whose toughness will no longer be a surprise. 8. DALLAS MAVERICKS -- The Mavericks are on the edge. After losing the free agent Steve Nash to the Suns, the Mavs got Jason Terry, more a twoguard than a point guard. Dirk Nowitzki, the top international player in the league, has to get over his best friend's departure, though he will feel better with center Erick Dampier's tough presence. Marquis Daniels has to avoid a sophomore slump. There are too many question marks, including whether Coach Don Nelson will last the year. PLAYOFF BUBBLE 9. PHOENIX SUNS -- Steve Nash is back, and his leadership could help push the improved Suns into a playoff spot. Shawn Marion was on the trading block this summer, but his and Amare Stoudemire's athleticism should complement Nash's play. Quentin Richardson provides more offense. 10. UTAH JAZZ -- Power forward Carlos Boozer left Lake Erie for Salt Lake and now must justify his contract. Mehmet Okur, another key off-season pickup, is inconsistent. Andrei Kirilenko, one of the most versatile players in the league, signed a maximum contract, and the team was bolstered by Matt Harpring's return. LOTTERY LAND 11. PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS -- Theo Ratliff is a top-notch defender, and Zach Randolph could be the cornerstone of a team that seems to be forever changing. It is only a matter of time before Sebastian Telfair breaks out at point guard. How much time is left for Coach Maurice Cheeks? 12. GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS -- Intriguing youth with Troy Murphy, Jason Richardson and Mike Dunleavy. Speedy Claxton and Derek Fisher anchor the point-guard spot. But this team is still undermanned in the West. 13. NEW ORLEANS HORNETS -- The stars Baron Davis and Jamaal Magloire want out. The fans don't want in. Coach Byron Scott is back, and he gets to go West. Not so easy there. 14. SEATTLE SUPERSONICS -- Ray Allen's feud with Kobe Bryant was the best thing that happened to the SuperSonics, because it overshadowed the glaring holes on the roster. Danny Fortson and Vitaly Potapenko, out six weeks with a broken hand, typify a team that is going nowhere. 15. LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS -- Poor Elton Brand, perhaps it is the Duke curse. The Nets stalwart Kerry Kittles was traded for nothing, though he is recovering from another knee operation. LIZ ROBBINS'S N.B.A. FINALS PICK: SAN ANTONIO SPURS over DETROIT PISTONS"}