{"title": "Letting Haiti Down", "body_text": "The House of Representatives is on the verge of killing a trade measure that by some accounts would create at least 100,000 new jobs in poverty-stricken Haiti in the next 18 months. The forces behind this disgrace are, as usual, textile interests in the South, along with organized labor and the lawmakers who coddle those constituencies. A strong Senate bill, which would give Haiti preferential access to the United States clothing and textile market, passed unanimously this summer. Clothing manufacturers, including J.C. Penney, then told members of the House Ways and Means Committee that the measure would allow them to build factories across Haiti that would employ thousands of workers making T-shirts and sweatshirts. But when the measure got to the House, lawmakers misnamed it HOPE and promptly took out the main inducement to American importers and retailers: an allowance that would permit them to take lower-priced foreign fabric to be assembled in Haiti. Having effectively watered the bill down, Ways and Means Committee members headed out of town to campaign for re-election. With much left on their plate for the upcoming lame-duck session, chances are dim for fixing this measure. Bush administration officials said back in February that this time around, they would do the right thing in a country where per capita income barely hits $300, the unemployment rate is 80 percent and people actually make food out of mud. But the administration has remained quiet on the Haiti trade bill. Meanwhile, with rampant corruption and endemic poverty crippling Haiti, most of the country's few textile factories have shut down. American troops are long gone, and an anemic United Nations force has done little to restore hope. Haiti's apparel industry, which employed some 60,000 people in the 1980's, has shrunk to 20,000 jobs. A few lawmakers, including Representative Charles Rangel, indicate that they may try to revive the bill in the lame-duck session. We hope they do and that their colleagues do the right thing. Editorial"}