{"title": "Extended Absence of Chief Justice Hints at More Serious Cancer Than He First Indicated", "body_text": "The announcement by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist that he would not return to the bench on Monday indicated that his thyroid cancer was more advanced and aggressive than he disclosed a week ago. In a statement issued minutes before he was due to lead the court in hearing oral arguments today, Chief Justice Rehnquist, 80, said the plan to return to work that he announced Oct. 25, when he disclosed his illness, ''was too optimistic.'' The chief justice omitted any reference to when, or if, he would return to the bench or his office, and said he would work from home while continuing to receive radiation and chemotherapy as an outpatient. Radiation and chemotherapy are usually reserved for advanced and aggressive forms of thyroid cancer and are rarely intended to achieve a cure, experts not connected with the chief justice's case said in interviews. The main intent is to temporarily put brakes on the spread of the cancer and to extend the lives of patients for a number of months, said Dr. Lewis E. Braverman, who is chief of endocrinology at Boston University and editor of a leading textbook on the thyroid gland. Because Chief Justice Rehnquist has not released the most crucial information about his illness -- the specific type of thyroid cancer and the extent of its spread -- any assessment must rely on speculation, the experts emphasized. But they said the chief justice had provided important medical clues to the seriousness of his case in disclosing the need for radiation and chemotherapy in addition to his tracheotomy last month. In addition, they noted that he had omitted any mention of the usual treatment for thyroid cancer: surgical removal of the thyroid gland. The new information ''firmed up a little more that he has one of the bad types like anaplastic thyroid cancer,'' said Dr. Leonard Wartofsky of the Washington Hospital Center. Anaplastic thyroid cancer is rare, one of the most aggressive human cancers, and when it occurs it is mostly in older people. Anaplastic cancers often arise among people with a long history of an enlarged thyroid gland that also contained nodules, or bumps, that a doctor can feel with the fingers. Radiation is a common therapy for anaplastic thyroid cancer. But the addition of chemotherapy does not rule out any other kind of thyroid cancer because the two forms of treatment can be combined, depending on circumstances in each case. Experts said, however, that they could not rule out the possibility that Chief Justice Rehnquist had less aggressive, but still serious, forms of thyroid cancer like medullary and follicular, or even a lymphoma that arises in the thyroid. The prognosis also varies according to the growth characteristics of each patient's cancer and its response to treatment. In a best case situation, they said, Chief Justice Rehnquist could survive for months, even more than a year. But on the sketchy information available, ''it looks pretty grim,'' said Dr. James A. Fagin, director of the division of endocrinology at the University of Cincinnati. ''The choice of using chemotherapy and radiotherapy is already talking about heroic approaches because neither of these is believed to be very helpful in general for any type of thyroid cancer,'' Dr. Fagin said. The median survival for anaplastic thyroid cancer is two to six months, but with newer treatments ''a small fraction of patients have survived more than 12 months,'' Dr. Fagin said. The experts said thyroid cancer patients should not assume that they were receiving inferior care if their therapy was not the same as the chief justice's. Chief Justice Rehnquist's care ''is far from what most patients with thyroid cancer would require,'' said Dr. Steven I. Sherman, chairman of the department of endocrinologic cancer at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. Patients with the usual, less aggressive kind of thyroid cancer usually receive radioactive iodine to destroy the thyroid. But the kind of radiation Chief Justice Rehnquist is undergoing -- external beam radiation -- is different and more powerful. The course of such radiation is often four to six weeks but could be as short as three weeks, the experts said. Patients can receive therapy in the morning and go back to work the rest of the day, although patients often complain of fatigue. The experts said that the prognosis for patients with advanced thyroid cancer depended on many factors like an individual's personality and what other ailments they might have. They said that they assumed the chief justice would have released more information if he had a good prognosis. The experts said their bleak prognosis was based on information collected from many cases and studies. ''But,'' Dr. Wartofsky said, ''I'd like to be wrong.''"}