{"title": "In Tales of Redemption and Humanity, It's All or Nothing", "body_text": "The Pacific And Other Stories  By Mark Helprin  366 pages. The Penguin Press. $25.95. There is water, water everywhere in Mark Helprin's soggy new collection of stories. Whether it takes the form of the Atlantic or the Pacific, a Venetian canal or a Canadian snowfield, water plays a symbolic role in virtually every one of these tales -- an emblem of the obliviousness of the physical world, and the possibility of renewal and redemption. It is a metaphor for Nature, for Eternity, for Life and for Death; a reminder that Mr. Helprin is interested not in the minutiae of daily life but in the Big Picture and big questions about truth and goodness and mortality. In the past, this outlook -- together with a prodigious imagination -- has resulted in some potent fiction: the fierce, faintly surreal improvisations of ''Ellis Island and Other Stories'' (1981) and the haunting, picaresque reminiscences of a war veteran in ''A Soldier of the Great War'' (1991). But this time, in ''The Pacific and Other Stories,'' Mr. Helprin's focus on moral absolutes seems to have hardened, if not calcified, and most of his philosophical excursions into fable-land result in heavy-handed, stage-managed fictions -- works hobbled by simplistic, Manichean juxtapositions of good and evil, the noble past and the debased present. The lugubrious tale ''Jacob Bayer and the Telephone,'' for instance, pits a modest, truth-seeking teacher named Jacob against a bunch of philistines who worship the telephone; it bludgeons home the author's point that tradition is admirable, while blind belief in progress and technology is stupid. ''Reconstruction'' similarly juxtaposes a bunch of spoiled, acquisitive yuppies with a man's memories of his father, a World War II veteran and certified member of the Greatest Generation. Mr. Helprin -- who, in addition to writing fiction, has written speeches for former Senator Bob Dole and political columns for The Wall Street Journal -- tends to view things, in these stories, in black-and-white, all-or-nothing terms. As a result, his heroes often emerge as cardboard exemplars of virtue. Many are preoccupied with lofty matters like how to die with honor, how to serve God, how to remain true to their ideals. In ''Perfection,'' Roger Reveshze, a 14-year-old Holocaust survivor who becomes obsessed with the Yankees because they dwell in ''the house of Ruth,'' helps the Bronx Bombers to a series of stunning wins with his divinely inspired baseball skills; in doing so, he makes his teammates play not for the sake of winning but for the sake of perfection, as a means of speaking ''directly to God.'' In ''Monday,'' a saintly New York City contractor named Fitch -- who is ''faultlessly honest'' and always ''gave reasonable estimates, did the highest-quality work, finished on time'' -- decides to spend his own money to renovate an apartment for a woman who lost her husband in the terrorist attacks of 9/11. Self-conscious, even self-congratulatory about his good deed, Fitch feels that the project imbues him and his men with a sense of holiness. Predictably enough, their ''sacrificial labor'' results in a masterpiece: ''It was a refuge, and yet it was not closed. It was a fortress, and yet it was light and airy. It was luxurious, and yet it was modest and austere.'' This self-important, sentimental language extends to the story's dialogue as well. ''You know,'' Fitch asks a colleague, ''how knights would die for the Virgin, would yearn to die? And how everything in the world seemed unimportant next to their peculiar, settled, certain devotion?'' When Gustavo replies that ''that is still very much in the heart of my country,'' Fitch goes on: ''Well, then you know. Sometimes you find something that's truly important, and even though it throws everything into disorder you know you have to do it and it gives you new life.'' As readers of the author's earlier fiction well know, Mr. Helprin is highly skilled at creating dramatic sequences that are prickly with suspense, and this volume is no exception. ''Mar Nueva'' recounts a chilling showdown between an autocratic tyrant and an outspoken and idealistic young woman who dares to stand up to him. While ''A Brilliant Idea and His Own'' provides a harrowing account of a British parachutist's efforts to cope with the injuries he's received during a bad jump behind enemy lines and his heroic attempts to radio back intelligence to his comrades in arms. But these stories, by far the strongest in this volume, feel more like bravura set pieces than full-fledged, emotionally satisfying fictions. As for the remaining tales, they tend to be a cloying, synthetic lot. Some pivot heavily around a terrible irony: a Jewish music hall performer decides to travel to Poland on the eve of Hitler's march through Europe. Others feature contrived O. Henryesque twist endings: a man, who is obsessed with his luxurious, perfect house, loses it to a fire; years after discovering a great opera star, an impresario stumbles across another amazing young talent but instead of instantly signing her decides to warn her about the perils of fame. At once predictable and unbelievable, these stories not only fail to provide a durable showcase for Mr. Helprin's instinctive gifts as a storyteller, but they also point up a growing sanctimony and schematism to his writing. BOOKS OF THE TIMES"}