{"title": "After a Long Campaign, Ready for a Long Night?", "body_text": "The campaign is over, but unless the polls are wrong there is still one daunting prospect facing the American voter: another long, long night in front of the television set. Some election-night hosts are planning slumber parties. Others are planning to fill the lulls with movies, poker games, burlesque dancers, contests and some drinking games that sound like a recipe for alcohol poisoning -- like one in which guests take a swig each time someone on television says ''dead heat.'' The first test of viewers' patience will come early in the evening, when most of the polling places are still open and the network anchors are under strict orders not to give away the results of the exit polls that have been circulating all afternoon among news organizations. The result in the past has sometimes been a version of the Dance of the Seven Veils, in which anchors or correspondents will pretend not to know what's happening in a state but give enough clues for the discerning viewer. They might allude to the high spirits at one campaign headquarters, or start speculating about what effect the loss of this state would have on the other candidate. ''I'll go into the Socratic zone and keep asking questions and hope that nobody on the panel will giggle it away,'' said Chris Matthews, the MSNBC anchor, who added that he would have on his best poker face to mask the exit-poll results. ''If somebody says something that I think is revelatory, I'll try do what they did on Indian footpaths -- I will rub away with my stick to make the footprints disappear.'' Inquiring minds, though, may be able to find some of the exit-poll results on the Internet well before the polls close. The leaked results have appeared on past Election Days in the Drudge Report and at Slate. Jacob Weisberg, the editor of Slate, said he planned to post the poll data again today if Slate gets it. ''The big news organizations withhold this data on the totally unproven theory that exit polls reduce turnout,'' Mr. Weisberg said. ''But even if there were real, as opposed to anecdotal, evidence to support the reduced turnout idea, I won't put Slate in the paternalistic position of deciding that our readers aren't mature enough to react in the proper way to truthful information we possess.'' If the race in some states is as close as predicted, it will take more than exit-poll results to project the winner. And if the margins in the battleground states are anything like the one in Florida in 2000, that could mean another all-nighter. ''I'm telling guests to bring their pajamas,'' said Virginia Sloan, a veteran of past Democratic presidential campaigns who is holding a party for 40 people at her home in Washington. To keep her guests entertained, Ms. Sloan will have six television sets (including one in the bathroom) tuned to different networks, as well as a couple of laptop computers. ''I hope the guests don't have to wear the pajamas,'' she said, ''but we're prepared for a long night. We're laying in a lot of food.'' In New York, the Darklight club in Chelsea is holding what it calls a slumber party featuring election coverage on a big screen as well as go-go dancers in red, white and blue. ''They'll be doing old-school, kitschy performances with patriotic or political themes,'' said Bryan Davis, a co-owner of the club. ''It's more of a burlesque show than a strip show, although they do take their clothes off sometimes.'' Those watching at home will have to content themselves with the networks' talking heads as the night wears on, which can be a strain on viewers as well as the anchors. Brit Hume, the anchor of the Fox News Channel broadcast, said he hoped it would not be a repeat of the 2000 marathon. ''Filling time gets to be hard,'' Mr. Hume said. ''What can really be dreadful is when nothing's happening and you're going to a crowded ballroom where the band's playing and you've got some poor correspondent who can't hear what you're saying. You also worry about getting personally incoherent -- you suddenly realize you uttered a sentence and you have no idea what it means.'' So what should a viewer do if it's a really long night? ''The best advice I can give people is to get some sleep,'' Mr. Hume said. ''But I'm not supposed to say that.'' THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE AUDIENCE"}