{"title": "Once-Bitten Networks Vow Not to Make Hasty Calls", "body_text": "With memories of their botched calls in the 2000 presidential race still embarrassingly fresh, the major news networks say they are under increased pressure to get it right when they declare a winner tonight. But never before has getting it right posed such a challenge. The networks and The Associated Press have devised a system to avoid a repeat of 2000, when Florida was called for Al Gore, then for George W. Bush and then, in the wee hours, for neither. And the networks, which have enacted their own stopgaps to detect any errors that the new system might produce, are going into Election Day with a brave and flashy face that they hope will restore their pride after the mess in 2000. NBC News, for instance, has set up an American history exhibit at Rockefeller Center and renamed it ''Democracy Plaza'' for its coverage from there. CNN has rented the Nasdaq site in Times Square. But for all the hoopla, a crop of new complications has arisen this year that leaves room for error, and at the very least could give the networks difficulty in declaring a winner tonight, network officials said. Several states remain too close to predict, raising the potential for more than one recount. More people are voting early and by mail than ever before, escaping the watchful eye of network exit pollsters who are crucial for Election Night projections. And hundreds of thousands are expected to vote using provisional ballots, which might not be counted for days, and which lawyers are likely to challenge anyway. ''We had determined coming off of 2000 that we would be extra cautious in 2004, and we've done a lot to improve the various information systems to ensure we have the best handle on what's going on,'' said Bill Wheatley, an NBC News vice president. ''Having said that, clearly it's close in many states.'' ''There are a number of imponderables,'' Mr. Wheatley added, ''so that gives us all the more reason to be cautious.'' One network news executive, who agreed to speak only on condition of anonymity, put it more starkly: ''We're all petrified about getting it wrong.'' Officials at every major news network said they were instructing their anchors and analysts to avoid declaring a result in any state where they are uncertain about the outcome, no matter what others have reported -- essentially asking competitive network news reporters to quash an instinct as natural as drinking water. To a one, they vowed they would not make any erroneous calls. ''The last thing we want to do is to have to take something back, to make a correction,'' said Kathleen A. Frankovic, the director of surveys for CBS News. And, in a break from past elections, the networks have vowed not to call any state before all of its polls are closed, one of several lessons learned from 2000. The misreporting of the 2000 vote seemed at the time to be a singular event, caused by an unusually close vote that exposed flaws in a system upon which the major news outlets had been dependably relying for a decade. The system, called Voter News Service, was set up to provide exit polls and actual vote tabulations and was run by ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox News, CNN and The Associated Press. Dozens of major news organizations, including The New York Times, subscribed to the service. News executives said flaws in the exit polling data in 2000 helped lead them to first call Florida for Mr. Gore. Later, the system's failure to detect an erroneous drop in the vote tally for Mr. Gore in Volusia County helped lead them to report that Mr. Bush had won the state. Republicans complained that the early declaration that Mr. Gore won Florida depressed last-minute turnout in the conservative Panhandle, where polls closed an hour later than in the rest of the state, diminishing Mr. Bush's vote there. Democrats said the later call for Mr. Bush prompted Mr. Gore to concede prematurely and sent him into the recount looking like a sore loser. The House Committee on Energy and Commerce held a hearing at which news executives were forced to answer for themselves. Warren Mitofsky and Joe Lenski, the independent pollsters who devised the system that is replacing the Voter News Service, said the networks most likely would have not made the same mistakes if the new system had been in place in 2000. For instance, they said, the new system would have produced a visible red flag when Volusia County produced the erroneous vote count for Mr. Gore. The system will also raise flags when a county's data is out of keeping with its voting history. The men said exit polls should also be more representative this time because exit polling in 13 states will be supplemented with telephone surveys of voters who used absentee ballots or voted early. The old system only did so in three states. But where the old system produced independent vote tabulations that could be used to confirm those of the Associated Press -- and vice versa -- the new system will not have such a safeguard. No network is planning to rely solely on the system, and each has plans to help it apply the brakes before declaring a state, or the election, won. Dan Merkle, director of the decision desk at ABC News, will oversee a team that will review every call the network analysts make before they are relayed to the anchor Peter Jennings for public consumption. Mr. Merkle said the network would most likely not declare a winner in any state where the gap between winner and loser was less than two percentage points. Marty Ryan, executive producer for political programs for Fox News Channel, said he would have the network's anchor and legal analyst, Greta Van Susteren, in place to deal with legal issues that could cloud the votes of key states. ''We're going to be prepared for all the contingencies,'' he said. David Bohrman, who is overseeing CNN's coverage, said his network would have its legal experts in place, too. And Mr. Wheatley said NBC News was promoting a phone number for viewers to call to report problems at the polls, information that can be figured into projection calculations. For all of that, nobody was ready to predict smooth sailing. ''We're certainly not going to make the same mistakes we made last time,'' Mr. Mitofsky said. ''It's always possible to find new ways to make mistakes.'' He hastened to add, ''But everything we know about has been more than covered.'' THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE NEWS MEDIA"}