{"title": "Marsh to Create Restitution Fund Using Incentive Fee Proceeds", "body_text": "Marsh & McLennan, which the New York attorney general's office has accused of bid-rigging and price-fixing, said last night that it was setting up a fund to be used for restitution in any settlement agreement. Marsh, the world's largest insurance broker, indicated that the fund could initially have up to $230 million. In a statement, the broker said the money would come from longstanding incentive agreements with insurance companies. It suspended the agreements on Oct. 15, the day after Eliot Spitzer, the attorney general, accused Marsh in a civil lawsuit of cheating customers. Mr. Spitzer said that the incentive agreements, known as contingency fees or placement service agreements, were at the heart of his lawsuit. He said the payments to Marsh, for meeting sales and profitability targets for the insurers, represented a fundamental conflict of interest. Several other brokers have stopped taking this type of payments. Marsh gave no explanation for what prompted the announcement about the fund, and a spokesman would not elaborate. Darren Dopp, a spokesman for Mr. Spitzer, said the decision to set aside the money was made by Marsh on its own and was not imposed by the attorney general as part of a settlement. ''There is still a lot of investigating and actions to do before there is any resolution,'' Mr. Dopp said. ''We're not at the point where any settlement agreement is under way.'' Mr. Dopp said that the new chief executive of Marsh, Michael G. Cherkasky, called Mr. Spitzer's office yesterday to report the move. In the statement, Marsh said for the first time that it intended to collect from the insurers money that it had expected to receive under incentive agreements in place before Oct. 15. Marsh had not previously mentioned the issue. This part of the statement raised the possibility that insurance companies had begun to resist making the payments after Marsh suspended the agreements. But that could not be determined last night. Marsh said it had calculated that $230 million was outstanding as of Sept. 30. It did not say how much it estimated it was owed for the first half of October. Any settlement of the case, according to people briefed on the investigation, is expected to take much more than $230 million. Marsh reported earlier that it received $845 million in such payments in 2003 alone."}