{"title": "Oil Prices Fall as Concerns About Supply Begin to Ease", "body_text": "Oil prices fell to a four-week low yesterday, briefly dropping below $50 a barrel, as traders grew less concerned about possible threats to supplies. Crude oil futures for December delivery fell $1.63, to $50.13 a barrel, after touching $49.30 during trading, their lowest level since Oct. 4. Oil prices have gained 73 percent in the last year. Last week, prices reached a record $55.65 a barrel. Oil prices rose steadily over the summer as analysts and traders feared that supplies from oil-producing countries like Iraq, Russia and Nigeria could be interrupted at a time when demand, especially from Asia, was surging at an unexpected pace. But while oil producers are pumping at record levels to keep up with consumption, few of the market's concerns about supplies have materialized. ''This price isn't justified,'' said Doug Leggate, an analyst at Citigroup. ''The idea that there is a shortage is nonsense. The reality is that the market is oversupplied.'' On the day before the presidential election, some traders were speculating that a victory by Senator John Kerry over President Bush would lead to a change in energy policy in the United States. For the market, the most immediate policy difference between the candidates is their position on government-owned oil stockpiles. The Bush administration has consistently rejected calls to stop adding oil to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Releasing oil from the reserve could lower prices, but Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney have repeatedly said they would use the reserves only in an emergency. Mr. Kerry has said that given the strength of market demand, the government should stop adding to the reserve until prices drop. ''You have basically two different attitudes to the reserves: one that is essentially security-centric and opposed to market intervention, while the other has a more central-bank attitude towards it,'' said Jamal Qureshi, an oil market analyst at PFC Energy, a consulting firm in Washington. The reserve, which the Bush administration began refilling in November 2001, now has 670 million barrels of oil, the equivalent of 56 days of imports. The oil is stored in four underground salt caverns along the Gulf coasts of Texas and Louisiana. Oil from the reserve was last released in 2000, under President Bill Clinton. The election ''is so close, people are hedging their bets,'' Mr. Qureshi said. ''A Kerry administration would also be more likely to approve a release in strategic reserves.'' For the last two years, traders have widely expected disruptions in oil supplies. That has contributed to the price increase because companies are producing oil as quickly as they can, leaving the global market vulnerable to any interruption. But so far, the only thing that has hurt production in the United States has been Hurricane Ivan, which caused a shortfall in output from the Gulf of Mexico in September. Iraq still produces more than 2 million barrels a day and exports 90 percent of it; Russian exports have not been affected by the tussle between the government and the country's largest oil company, Yukos; and in Venezuela, President Hugo Ch\u00e1vez remains in power after defeating a national vote calling for his removal. ''There's an idea that Iraq is producing pretty steadily now and that Nigeria is calming down,'' said Jay Saunders, an oil analyst at Deutsche Bank. Expectations of a cold winter in the Northeast part of the United States also pushed up prices in recent weeks, ''but people have gotten ahead of themselves,'' Mr. Saunders said. THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES"}