{"title": "Ovitz Defends Costs of Gifts Dispensed by Him at Disney", "body_text": "Michael S. Ovitz, the ousted president of the Walt Disney Company, ended five days of testimony on Monday by defending the hundreds of thousands of dollars he spent on gifts, entertainment and charitable contributions as a way to give employees a pat on the back, generate good will and soften Disney's image with power brokers. ''The entertainment business is very much about favors,'' Mr. Ovitz said when questioned by a lawyer for the shareholders, Steven Schulman, about the Disney character toys he handed out, and about more elaborate gifts like the $601 in jewelry and food he gave to the talk-show host David Letterman. Lunch with people like Variety's editor, Peter Bart, helped ''to keep good relationships with the trades,'' Mr. Ovitz said, and a $25,000 contribution to the Museum of Modern Art, where he is a trustee, helped Disney's visibility in New York, where rivals like Time Warner donate millions. In January 1997, shareholders sued Disney directors; Mr. Ovitz; and the chief executive, Michael D. Eisner, asserting that Mr. Ovitz should have been fired for gross negligence rather than being terminated without cause. They want the defendants to return Mr. Ovitz's $140 million severance package plus interest, and they say that they should have been better informed about the decision to hire Mr. Ovitz and the terms of his contract. In pretrial testimony, Mr. Eisner said he had been trying to hire his friend, Mr. Ovitz, for 20 years. ''I had been trying to get him on my side because I couldn't do business with him because he was too tough, so I thought he would be better to be on our side.'' Mr. Ovitz said on Monday that he finally agreed to join Disney in August 1995, two months after his negotiations to join MCA fell through. His partner at Creative Artists Agency, Ron Meyer, got that job, just as Newsweek came out with a cover article anticipating Mr. Ovitz's move to MCA and calling him the most powerful man in Hollywood. Mr. Ovitz attributed the problems of his 14 months at Disney to Mr. Eisner's failure to act when two senior executives told Mr. Ovitz on the day he was hired that they would never report to him. ''I was very unhappy,'' he said, but he trusted Mr. Eisner ''1,000 percent because he said he would work it out.'' After his testimony, Mr. Ovitz told reporters outside the courthouse that he would not know how he felt until the chancellor, William B. Chandler III, ruled. ''But I couldn't be happier that I had the opportunity to give my side,'' he said. ''I have been waiting for seven years to get this out and what better condition than under oath.'' He said he was self-employed, working as a consultant and in investment, and making some deals. ''I've lost seven years of my business life and coming out of that Disney thing I was tainted,'' he said, adding that people have begun calling him after reading accounts of the trial. ''My side came out,'' he said. His hope is that the ''company gets off, I get off and that verdict will allow me to move on.'' Before leaving, he repeated statements that he believed that Mr. Eisner was the ''best executive in the business, but as a friend, that was not the most positive way to end a relationship of 25 years.'' When asked about Mr. Eisner's statement in a deposition that they had had dinner twice in recent years, Mr. Ovitz said they had really happened to be at the same event. He was followed on the witness stand by Irwin Russell, a retired Disney director who was Mr. Eisner's lawyer and was instrumental in negotiating Mr. Ovitz's contract. Mr. Russell said that the first time he heard Mr. Ovitz speak in the 1970's he was ''very impressed'' with his intelligence and straightforwardness. In 1995, he drafted Mr. Ovitz's compensation package to make it consistent with the Disney compensation policies. He said the base salary of $1 million was at the lower end of the market; bonuses were awarded to make up for that; and stock options were seen as an efficient and economical way to reward employees because the company did not have to account for them as costs and the employee could deduct them from taxes. ''There was some dilution of shareholder equity,'' he said. ''But Wall Street and all other people seemed to accept that. Executives made substantial gains with them.'' Lawyers said they expected Mr. Russell to testify the rest of a week shortened by two court holidays: Election Day on Tuesday and in Georgetown, Del., an event known since 1792 as Return Day, when rival candidates sit together in a parade intended to bury the election hatchet. THE MEDIA BUSINESS Correction:  November 5, 2004, Friday  An article in Business Day on Tuesday about testimony in a lawsuit by shareholders in the Walt Disney Company over the severance pay of Michael S. Ovitz, a former president, paraphrased incorrectly from remarks by Irwin Russell, a retired Disney director. He said stock options were seen as an efficient and economical way to reward employees in part because the company could deduct them from taxes; he did not say the employee could."}