{"title": "Two Favorites Return, With Violence and Lyricism to Spare", "body_text": "Thirty-four-year-old productions of incessantly repeated repertory are not likely to get the full attention of any major opera company. But it was a pleasure to discover, beneath the general onstage bellowing at the Metropolitan Opera on Saturday afternoon, the Met orchestra and its conductor of the day, Dennis Russell Davies, playing Mascagni and Leoncavallo with exquisite sensibility. This was, of course, ''Cavalleria Rusticana'' and its inseparable sidekick, ''Pagliacci,'' in one of Franco Zeffirelli's earlier exercises in grandiosity. Belovedness is a two-edged sword. So irresistibly enthralled are audiences by these two violent little beauties that standards of fineness, vocal health and musical faithfulness can easily slip a few degrees with little notice. The Met does not give these productions front-line casts. The thrall is understandable. The opening sequence of ''Cavalleria'' is a crowd scene managed with a grace not often found in opera. The famous moments of ''Pagliacci'' are justly famous, and the murderous play that is not a play at the end is a theatrical coup. Both operas hinge on love triangles, ''Pagliacci'' perhaps being the more overwrought and contrived of the two. Music criticism, on the other hand, doesn't mean much next to the sheer lyrical invention that sweeps across an afternoon like this. Eva Urbanova, as Santuzza, wielded the most substantial of the ''Cavalleria'' voices. Jane Shaulis (Mama Lucia) and Jossie P\u00e9rez (Lola) did nicely. Canio in ''Pagliacci'' came by way of Vladimir Galouzine's full-throttle tenor. He, like Fabio Armiliato (Turiddu) and Frederick Burchinal (Alfio) in the other opera, gave us dynamic spectra ranging between loud and louder. All three had a cavalierness toward note value, tempo and phrase length that kept Mr. Davies in the pit playing nervous games of tag with his singers. Juan Pons played the thwarted Tonio to Leoncavallo's melodramatic hilt in ''Pagliacci,'' while Daniela Dess\u00ec (Nedda), Philippe Castagner (Beppe) and Mariusz Kwiecien (Silvio) were all respectable. The principal player in ''Cavalleria'' was really Mr. Zeffirelli's steep, high set of stone steps leading to the church. An opera may have been going on, but the eye wandered uncontrollably back to them: how small people looked during ascent and descent. How did set builders achieve that wonderful, worn unevenness? Would anyone slip and fall? There were also children and live animals to take the mind off music. The double bill of ''Cavalleria Rusticana'' and ''Pagliacci'' will return to the Metropolitan Opera on Wednesday, Saturday, Nov. 10 and 13 and March 20 and 26. MET OPERA REVIEW"}