{"title": "Ukraine Vote For President In Virtual Tie; Runoff Is Due", "body_text": "Ukraine's presidential election ended virtually in a dead heat, according to official results released Monday, after a campaign that international election observers called biased and marred by widespread irregularities. With nearly 95 percent of the returns counted by Monday evening, Prime Minister Viktor F. Yanukovich had received 40 percent of the vote on Sunday to replace President Leonid D. Kuchma. That put him less than 1 percentage point ahead of Viktor A. Yushchenko, a former prime minister and central bank chairman who became Mr. Kuchma's foremost critic. The count, which reflected deep regional, ethnic and social divisions among Ukraine's 47 million people, forces a runoff on Nov. 21. Given the tenor of the campaign so far, which featured evidence of government abuses, intimidation and occasional episodes of violence, the results set the stage for a fierce final clash between two men with strikingly divergent visions of the country's future. Mr. Yushchenko's campaign reported many abuses on the day of the election, saying they called into question the final results. Mr. Yanukovich's campaign also reported polling problems. On Monday, a coalition of international observers from Europe agreed, but laid most of the blame for irregularities, before and during the vote, on Mr. Kuchma's government, which had thrown its resources behind Mr. Yanukovich. The observers -- representing the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe, the European Union and NATO -- cited what they called overwhelming bias in the state-controlled news media, the blurring of state and campaign resources on Mr. Yanukovich's behalf and evidence of official interference in his opponents' campaigns. ''Elections must be won or lost by the will of the people, honestly expressed and honestly reflected in the counting of the votes,'' said Bruce George, a Briton who led the observer mission. He called the election ''a step backward'' from parliamentary elections held in 2002, which were also criticized as falling short of basic European standards. Among the most serious irregularities was the absence of voters from the voter lists. The observers reported problems in 40 percent of all polling stations. Each camp conducted its own count, with contradictory results that put its candidate ahead, though not by significant margins. Mr. Yushchenko appeared before supporters early Monday to declare a victory for Ukraine's ''democratic forces.'' Though his campaign aides declared him the victor again later in the day, they stopped short of calling the final results invalid. ''The election showed it is possible to struggle against power,'' Oleksandr O. Zinchenko, a member of Parliament and chairman of Mr. Yushchenko's campaign, said Monday afternoon. ''It showed there is opposition to the ruling regime.'' In a sign of the opposition's relative satisfaction with the results, a protest planned for Monday in Kiev attracted only a few hundred people, who gathered peacefully and pledged to continue campaigning for a Yushchenko victory in the runoff. Mr. Yanukovich, like Mr. Yushchenko, did not appear publicly as the results were announced. His campaign, however, released a statement early in the day quoting him as saying, ''The main achievement is that we managed to uphold peace and calm in our country.'' Mr. Yanukovich has vowed to continue much of Mr. Kuchma's legacy. While Mr. Kuchma tilted alternately toward Russia and Western Europe, Mr. Yanukovich promised to cultivate closer ties with Russia, proposing to make Russian an official language and to allow dual citizenship. He also promised to end the country's flirtation with NATO and European Union membership, emphasizing historic ties with Russia instead. His campaign has received high-profile support from Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin. Mr. Yushchenko, by contrast, has promised a more balanced approach, even as he vowed to attack what he called the corruption of Mr. Kuchma's government. He has campaigned as a Western-style democrat who would cultivate closer ties with the rest of Europe, though not at the expense of Russia. Although seen as more sympathetic to the United States, he has also vowed to withdraw Ukraine's 1,600 troops from Iraq, a deployment widely viewed here as an effort by Mr. Kuchma to improve relations with the Bush administration. Both sides will now court the other 22 candidates for support. In distant third and fourth places were Oleksandr O. Moroz, the Socialist who received nearly 6 percent of the votes, and Petro M. Symonenko, the Communist who received 5 percent. Mr. Moroz indicated that he was prepared to negotiate endorsement of Mr. Yushchenko, according to Ukrainian news reports, while Mr. Symonenko has not said whom he will support."}