{"title": "Leader of Mexican Energy Monopoly Resigns", "body_text": "The top officer of Petr\u00f3leos Mexicanos, Mexico's state-owned oil and gas monopoly, resigned today after a political uproar involving a payout of nearly $700 million to the company's union. Ra\u00fal Mu\u00f1oz Leos, a longtime chemical industry executive, was brought in as director general of Pemex four years ago by President Vicente Fox to instill a sense of private-sector efficiency in the company, one of the top 10-largest oil producers in the world. The Energy Ministry said Mr. Mu\u00f1oz would be succeeded by Pemex's head of exploration and production, Luis Ram\u00edrez Corzo. In a brief statement, the energy ministry said that the change was being made because of ''the current circumstances and future perspectives'' at the company, and its purpose was to ''strengthen the leadership the company needs'' in the last two years of Mr. Fox's government. Mr. Mu\u00f1oz has been under fire since newspapers disclosed the July deal with the company's union, which has nearly 100,000 members. Mr. Mu\u00f1oz signed the agreement without the backing of the Pemex board. Mr. Mu\u00f1oz said commitments made by earlier administrations were included in the agreement, which will pay for medical care, housing loans, sports facilities and events for the union. The furor echoed a scandal in which the Pemex union was accused of diverting at least $50 million to the presidential election campaign of Francisco Labastida, the losing candidate of the long-ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party in 2000. A former head of Pemex was extradited from the United States last month to face charges related to the scandal. Among the strongest of Mr. Mu\u00f1oz's critics over the union payment was Mexico's finance minister, Francisco Gil D\u00edaz. Mexico's treasury depends on Pemex, which pays some 60 percent of its revenue in taxes, for about a third of its revenue. Mr. Mu\u00f1oz was further embarrassed last month when a newspaper disclosed that Pemex had paid for his wife's liposuction, although he eventually reimbursed the company. ''It's clear that to be head of Pemex you need to have more than business skills,'' said George Baker, director of Mexico Energy Intelligence, an industry newsletter based in Houston. ''You need to have body armor built into your professional training to deal with the politics that go into the job. Or you need strong support from the president.'' Mr. Mu\u00f1oz's resignation showed that he had neither, Mr. Baker said. Mr. Ram\u00edrez Corzo is a former academic and private-sector energy consultant who was appointed by Mr. Mu\u00f1oz in 2001. He has been at the forefront of some controversial company projects, including the effort to attract private-sector companies to develop Mexico's natural gas reserves. Mr. Mu\u00f1oz presided over growing investment -- some $12 billion this year -- aimed at raising output by Pemex. Pemex produces 3.4 million barrels of oil a day and exports 1.89 million barrels, mostly to the United States. Mexico is one of the top four oil suppliers to the United States. The company faces declining production in the next year or so as output at its primary Cantarell field peaks and begins to drop, said Jed Bailey, director of research for Latin America at Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass."}