{"title": "Tired of Being in the Shadow of Citigroup, HSBC Pushes Harder Into Investment Banking", "body_text": "HSBC is emerging from the shadow of Citigroup. Like Citigroup, HSBC is a global consumer and commercial banking giant. But while Citigroup has had a series of regulatory setbacks, resulting in the ouster last month of three top executives in the aftermath of the shutdown of its private banking operations in Japan, HSBC, with a strong, long-established franchise in Asia, has been running smoothly on all cylinders. HSBC's stock price and earnings growth have outpaced Citigroup's in the last year. Still, HSBC wants to expand in a business where it has been dwarfed by Citigroup -- investment banking. In the last two years, despite fierce competition and a lackluster market for deals, HSBC has been spending millions to hire bankers and build its merger and acquisition advisory business. That strategy is a shift for HSBC. For years, its chairman, Sir John Bond, shunned the high corporate salaries commanded by the bankers specializing in these businesses and criticized the aggressive culture that came with them. Now the strategy may be bearing fruit. HSBC recently scored its first big investment banking victory when it was named an adviser on a deal involving two big South African mining companies, Harmony Gold's $8.2 billion hostile bid for Gold Fields. But partly because HSBC does not have a big enough operation to sell the deal to investors in the United States, Merrill Lynch was brought in as another adviser. Last week, Harmony hired yet another adviser, Morgan Stanley. Some bankers in London said some Harmony executives were concerned that HSBC did not have enough deal experience. Harmony Gold's all-stock bid could be a tough sale. It is being fought by Gold Fields and it has been criticized by some Harmony shareholders, putting HSBC in just the type of pressure cooker situation that Sir John has generally tried to avoid. The banker hired by Sir John to build HSBC's deal-making business is no stranger to pressure. John J. Studzinski, a former Morgan Stanley banker, was hired in 2002, with a mandate to bring in enough bankers to create a deal-making dynamo. Mr. Studzinski, 48, came to London from the United States two decades ago and he made his reputation at Morgan Stanley as an adviser on deals like Unilever's successful $24.7 billion battle for Best Foods. Mr. Studzinski is well known for his donations to charity, his work with the homeless and his acquaintances with royalty and pop stars. He brought his preference for traveling to work in a chauffer-driven sports utility vehicle with him from Morgan Stanley, a vivid contrast with HSBC's longstanding culture of thrift. Sir John travels economy class on short flights and requires his employees to do the same. When it hired Mr. Studzinski, HSBC appointed a veteran to be co-head of investment and corporate banking. Stuart Gulliver, 45, built up the bank's highly successful Asian trading operations before being called back to London. Colleagues and former employees call him the quintessential trader, with sharp wits and an equally sharp tongue. The unlikely pair have bypassed some of the typical pitfalls of sharing a top job by splitting their responsibilities, colleagues said. Mr. Studzinski is responsible for corporate and investment banking and Mr. Gulliver for setting up the equities and trading departments. Together, they have hired 700 bankers, and fired another 700, spending more than $400 million to build HSBC's investment banking business. So far, it is hard to see major progress. HSBC is making some gains in global underwriting and ranks No.14 to date this year, up from No.16 in 2002, according to Thomson Financial. Corporate and investment banking, which includes an already strong trading arm, debt issuance and transaction banking, accounted for about 27 percent of HSBC's first-half 2004 profits, bringing in $2.76 billion. That is up 27 percent from a year earlier, but much of that increase came from longstanding derivatives and foreign exchange operations. HSBC has advised on $18.3 billion in completed deals in the first three quarters of 2004, putting the bank at No.24 globally, down from No.16 a year ago. Mr. Studzinski and Mr. Gulliver declined requests for interviews. The company's investment banking plans are part of a three- to five-year strategy, said a spokesman, who added that they should be evaluated as such, rather than this early in the game. Rival bankers are happy to note that despite Mr. Studzinski's renown and his connections, HSBC has so far not won huge debt, equity and merger deals. HSBC dabbled in investment banking before, but when big bonuses were not forthcoming, its bankers left. Sir John has told investors and journalists several times in the last year that he thinks there is a role for a bank that is providing straightforward advice. Some experts say SBC's underlying strategic shift is sound. ''If you want to play with major corporate customers, I don't know how you do it without'' having an investment bank, said H. Rodgin Cohen, chairman of the Wall Street law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell. Some investors still question the way the bank is approaching the business, and its commitment in the long term. ''You would look for an acquisition if you really want to get into that space,'' said Guy de Blonay, fund manager at New Star Asset Management, which has $100 million in global financial funds under management. A big investment banking acquisition is one thing that HSBC executives, including Sir John, swear they will not do. Stephen Green, HSBC's chief executive, said on Oct. 6 that HSBC does ''not need to make an investment banking acquisition to put ourselves into a highly competitive position with our clients.'' His remarks came after the share price of Bear Stearns rose for several days on rumors that HSBC could be a buyer. Merrill Lynch was also considered a possible match because of the strength of its United States brokerage business. UBS was mentioned because it could be a better cultural fit than an American investment bank. It is a tough time to try to become an investment bank, particularly in London, where most of Europe's financial transactions are conducted. About 10 big American and European investment banks are vying for the top spots, as well as small boutiques like Cazenove and Rothschild. ''Fees are going down, margins are going down, none of the eight top banks are quitting, and HSBC is saying 'We want to have a top-ranked investment banking franchise,''' a rival London banker said. ''They picked a bad time to decide this.'' Marc Thomas, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in London, said: ''On the debt side, there's no doubt, with HSBC's corporate relations and balance sheet, it could work exceptionally. On the equity side, you have to ask if they have the advantage.'' HSBC has won some deals besides the Harmony transaction. In June, HSBC was co-manager of the 16.5 billion Hong Kong dollar ($2.1 billion) initial public offering of Ping An Insurance of China; HSBC owned a minority stake in the company. In September, HSBC was co-manager of a $1.5 billion bond sale for Petr\u00f3leos Mexicanos, Mexico's state-owned oil company. It is currently a co-adviser to the French food company Picard Surgeles, which is selling itself in an auction. But HSBC's long history of corporate banking got in the way of at least one other transaction. Mr. Studzinski was eager to negotiate Philip Green's planned takeover of the British retailer Marks & Spencer, but Sir John rejected the idea because HSBC is a lender to Marks & Spencer, Mr. Green said. The entrepreneur, who ultimately did not win Marks & Spencer, said that experience did not mean that he would not call on HSBC for a deal in the future. ''They're interested in doing business with us, and we're interested in doing business with them,'' Mr. Green said. ''They've got a big balance sheet, and they're a big bank. You'd be crazy to ignore them.'' MARKET PLACE"}