{"title": "Prosecutor Tells Jury Peterson Killed Wife to Live a Fantasy", "body_text": "After nearly five months of testimony, the prosecution in the Scott Peterson trial tried to connect all of the dots for jurors in closing arguments on Monday, saying that Mr. Peterson had killed his wife to achieve freedom and his fantasy of a jet-set lifestyle that he would never see as a married father living in Modesto. In a summation that relied heavily on photographs and audio tapes, Rick Distaso, the senior deputy district attorney of Stanislaus County, urged jurors to use common sense in analyzing the mostly circumstantial evidence against Mr. Peterson, who has been charged with the murder of his wife, Laci Peterson, and her fetus, whom the couple had planned to name Conner. He could face the death penalty if convicted. Mr. Distaso outlined Mr. Peterson's motive for murder and suggested that the defendant had the murder in mind at least a month before Ms. Peterson disappeared. ''He didn't want that dull married life,'' Mr. Distaso said. ''He did not want that baby. The reason he killed Laci Peterson was because Conner was on the way.'' Mr. Distaso presented a pictorial account of how he believed Mr. Peterson killed his wife in December 2002. To start, he projected a large photograph of Ms. Peterson on the wall across from the jury box. ''The defendant strangled or smothered Laci Peterson on the night of Dec. 23 or in the morning when she was getting dressed,'' Mr. Distaso said. Mr. Peterson then wrapped his wife's body in a blue tarp, placed it in his truck, then weighted the body and dumped it into San Francisco Bay, the prosecutor told the jury. Mr. Distaso showed jurors aerial photographs of the spot where Mr. Peterson said he went fishing on Dec. 24, 2002, an area so far offshore no one could have seen a body being dumped, he said. Then jurors were shown a photograph of a spot not far away where the remains washed ashore in April 2003. Mr. Peterson is the only person ''we know without any doubt that was in the exact location in the exact spot where Laci and Conner washed ashore,'' the prosecutor said. ''That alone is proof beyond a reasonable doubt in this case,'' Mr. Distaso said. ''You can take that fact to the bank and you can convict this man of murder.'' Much of Mr. Distaso's closing argument centered around tying up loose ends, giving details of what he called a long list of lies the defendant told to friends, family members, the police and his girlfriend, Amber Frey. Mr. Distaso suggested that Ms. Frey represented the life of freedom Mr. Peterson so coveted. Citing photographs, taped telephone conversations and other evidence, he argued that Mr. Peterson was living a double life: the life of the devoted and grieving husband and that of a carefree playboy. The defense, which is scheduled to deliver its closing argument Tuesday, has argued that Ms. Peterson was abducted by strangers and then killed, possibly for money."}