{"title": "Injury and a Comeback Leave Nets Uncertain", "body_text": "The two biggest question marks for the Nets, as they head into their season opener against Shaquille O'Neal and the Miami Heat on Wednesday night, are rebounding and the void left at point guard by the injured Jason Kidd. At least that is what Ed Stefanski, the general manager of the Nets, says. Kidd, who had surgery on his left knee on July 1, will probably not be ready to return until December or January at the earliest. He received clearance Wednesday to begin the oncourt phase of his rehabilitation. ''I think time will only tell,'' Stefanski said of Kidd's status. ''Everything will evolve. We expect him, when he's healthy, to be back on the court for us.'' Alonzo Mourning is returning, having recovered from a kidney transplant on Dec. 19. Mourning, 34, played just 12 regular-season games the last two seasons. He played Thursday, in his first game since Nov. 22, contributing 12 points, 5 rebounds and 2 blocked shots in 19 minutes in a preseason victory over Philadelphia. Mourning has captured the imagination of the franchise and its dwindling fan base with his determination to get back on the court. But he said last week that his desire to remain with the franchise depended on what happened with Kidd. ''I'm trying to help this ball club win while I'm here,'' he said Friday. Mourning's four-year, $22.6 million contract is guaranteed but not insured, making him virtually untradable because of health concerns. ''And if Zo can play for us, then the rebounding question doesn't become a question mark for us,'' Stefanski said, referring to Mourning. Shooting guard does not seem to be a question for Coach Lawrence Frank, at least not if Ron Mercer and Rodney Buford, who signed as free agents in the off-season, can duplicate their preseason success. Small forward remains a strength. The Nets return their leading scorer from last season, Richard Jefferson, who averaged 18.5 points a game. The Nets do not have an answer at power forward, however, now that Kenyon Martin is gone. In a series of cost-cutting moves, the Nets traded Martin, their most important big man, to Denver. They also shipped their longtime shooting guard Kerry Kittles to the Los Angeles Clippers. And the Nets chose not to bring back Rodney Rogers and Lucious Harris, who had been key reserves. ''Obviously, on paper, when you lose a player the magnitude of Kenyon, it's going to hurt,'' Stefanski said. ''You have to do something to try to solve that problem.'' Eric Williams, another free-agent signee, will probably start at power forward, with Brian Scalabrine and Aaron Williams coming off the bench. Jason Collins, 7-footer, returns to start at center. He can also move to power forward when Mourning is on the court. At point guard, Zoran Planinic will rotate with Jacque Vaughn and Travis Best, who signed as free agents in the off-season, until Kidd returns. ''The health factor of Zo and Jason Kidd are huge for us,'' Stefanski said. ''With both of them in our lineup, I won't be afraid to play other teams in the N.B.A. with that team.'' Unless, of course, Kidd demands a trade. PRO BASKETBALL"}