{"title": "Where to Vote in New York? With Time Short, City Can't Say", "body_text": "New York City's main governmental Web site to help people locate polling places was inaccessible for much of yesterday, and voters seeking information by telephone from the Board of Elections were greeted with busy signals, continuous ringing or a recording that said customer service representatives were not available. The problems came as elections officials made last-minute preparations for what could be a huge turnout as voters prepared to cast their ballots in today's presidential election. More than 400,000 people have been added to the more than 4 million people on the voting rolls in New York City, and the demand for information on polling sites is expected to be particularly high this year, after a redistricting two years ago that changed where many people must cast their ballots. Leaders of civic groups said they had received calls from voters complaining that they were unable to get information on where to vote, either by looking for polling sites through the Board of Election's Web site, www.vote.nyc.ny.us, or by calling the board at (866) VOTE-NYC. In an interview earlier yesterday, John Ravitz, the executive director of the New York City Board of Elections, said that the board had spent the last few months preparing for today's vote and that it had obtained more than 400 new voting machines from other states and modified them for today. ''We're prepared for a huge turnout,'' Mr. Ravitz said. ''There has been a huge voter registration drive in the city, not just by the various campaigns but by other groups. There have been a number of institutions and organizations involved. And we've been excited about the increase in voter registration.'' But later in the day, after it was clear that the board telephone lines and Web site were not functioning properly, calls to Mr. Ravitz's office did not go through. Repeated calls to the board throughout the afternoon were greeted with a busy signal or no were not answered. ''What we're seeing is a poor level of performance,'' said Gene Russianoff, a staff lawyer for the New York Public Interest Research Group, a student-led nonprofit organization that has ties to Ralph Nader. ''We have had a lot of complaints come into our office. And we ourselves have tried calling the board to get information without success.'' Mr. Russianoff said his office had been ''trying to reach the board since noon'' without success. While Mr. Ravitz forecasted that turnout might be higher this year in New York City, Lee Daghlian, a spokesman for the State Board of Elections, said he was less certain of higher turnout statewide. ''Turnout usually peaks for a presidential election, but I don't see any reason why it should be any higher than last time, when 62 percent of registered voters in New York came out,'' Mr. Daghlian said. ''I don't think the percentage will change a lot. Since everyone expects this to be a Kerry state, some people might not be as motivated to come out and vote.'' Meanwhile, the United State Senate race in New York finished up much like the way it played out over the last few months, with Senator Charles E. Schumer, the Democrat, campaigning on behalf of other candidates, and Assemblyman Howard D. Mills trying to draw attention to his long-shot bid. Mr. Mills, a Republican from Orange County, had some star power in his final push -- he flew to five stops along with Gov. George E. Pataki. But even there, Mr. Mills's campaign appeared to be an add-on as opposed to the central theme, as Mr. Pataki billed his statewide tour as a Bush-Cheney victory tour. Still, recent polls suggest that Mr. Mills would be able to secure at least a distant second-place finish. At one point he appeared to be battling the Conservative Party candidate, Dr. Marilyn O'Grady, for even that. ''We have had a great response as people finally focused on the race in the last week, and we think Howard will do surprisingly well,'' said Kevin Collins, campaign manager for Mr. Mills. Senator Schumer did go on the campaign trail yesterday. But as he did in most of his other campaign appearances, he was mostly stumping for other candidates. If there has been any controversy over Mr. Schumer's re-election bid, it has been over his refusal to commit to serving a full six years if re-elected and his unwillingness to say he would not run for governor in 2006. Mr. Schumer insists he is focused only on the Senate, but once again yesterday that focus was broadened to include Albany, the seat of state government. He was on Long Island asking voters to back two candidates for the State Legislature who have fashioned their candidacies around the notion that the state government needs to be fixed. ''We are glad we could run a positive campaign that talked about Chuck's record,'' said Stu Loeser, a spokesman for Mr. Schumer. In addition to the Senate race, the entire state legislature is up for re-election in New York state, and there are several competitive Congressional races in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut."}