{"title": "Critic's Choice: New CD's", "body_text": "'The New Danger'  Mos Def Lots of rappers make great music year after year without getting much mainstream attention or respect, but Mos Def has pulled off the opposite trick. It has been five years since his pretty-good solo debut, and he has released only a handful of (not very good) tracks. And yet he is regularly lionized as one of hip-hop most important voices, as a socially conscious visionary, as a fearless musical explorer. None of these claims are borne out by his spotty discography, but no matter: who needs new releases when you've got a reputation like that? It's not really fair to blame Mos Def for his reputation -- and besides, he has spent the last few years establishing himself as an actor (most notably in the play ''Topdog/Underdog''). But we can certainly blame him for ''The New Danger'' (Geffen), the long-awaited follow-up to his 1999 debut, ''Black on Both Sides.'' This new album should help close the gap between his myth and his music, although probably not in the way he might have liked. It seems the album was meant to evoke a long, hazy jam session, ambitious but laid-back, with tense rock 'n' roll rants and atmospheric ballads and head-nodding hip-hop all wafting in and out of the mix. But although Mos Def sometimes finds the casual groove he's looking for, this disc is surprisingly dreary and oddly abstract. A lot of times it sounds as if we are hearing an idea for a song rather than a song itself. When he wants to make a ghettocentric rock song, he grabs a simple guitar loop, a basic hip-hop beat, and chants, ''Yes, we are so ghetto/Yes, we are rock 'n' roll.'' (That song, by the way, is \"Ghetto Rock.\") And when he wants hip-hop fans to know that he's, y'know, real, he records a track called ''Life Is Real,'' which goes, ''My whole life is real/Mornings, noons and nights is real/What I spit and I write is real/'Cause my life is ill.'' What's most puzzling about this album is the lack of the warmth and wit for which Mos Def is known. The album's low point is ''The Rape Over,'' for which Mos Def recycles a three-year-old Jay-Z beat while complaining, angrily but rather vaguely, about the ''old white men,'' ''corporate forces'' and ''quasihomosexuals'' controlling hip-hop. Plenty of rappers and singers are at their best when they are at their grouchiest, but not this one. A few of the more traditional rap tracks work, including ''Sunshine,'' with an effective Kanye West beat, and ''War,'' which has a greasy sideways groove that comes from Psycho Les of the Beatnuts (although it soon devolves into an unpleasant rap-metal harangue). But the long, allegedly soulful tracks often meander, especially ''Modern Marvel,'' a nine-minute Marvin Gaye tribute that includes this unfortunate couplet: ''When he said, 'Mercy, Mercy,' did he really know/That decades later, we'd still be killing folk?'' If this is what socially conscious hip-hop sounds like, then thank goodness lots of rappers avoid it altogether. 'Unfinished Business'  R. Kelly and Jay-Z This just might be the most cursed partnership in the history of popular music. \"Best of Both Worlds,\" the first album by these two, was torpedoed by Mr. Kelly's child-pornography scandal. After Mr. Kelly made his astonishing comeback (although he still faces 14 charges of child pornography), the two decided to revive a bad idea, and embarked on the disastrous tour that flamed out on Friday night at Madison Square Garden. The post-show interviews on Hot 97 (WQHT-FM, 97.1) made for some of the most entertaining hip-hop radio programming ever: Jay-Z complained about his ''insecure'' and ''disrespectful'' co-headliner, while Mr. Kelly said that he thought he had seen guns in the crowd, and added that he had been attacked by pepper spray, perhaps by a member of Jay-Z's entourage. Right now some enterprising bootlegger is probably working on a CD compilation of this radio play, ''War of the (Best of Both) Worlds.'' Oh yeah: the now-estranged super-duo has also released a CD, ''Unfinished Business'' (Jive/Rock Land/Roc-a-Fella/Island Def Jam), a brazenly lightweight collaboration between a pair of unapologetic hustlers who could probably do this in their sleep -- and, for the most part, might have. Yet somehow, this album is delicious from start to end, filled with penny-candy grooves, gold-plated pickup lines, and even a few moments of high drama. (O.K., low drama. What's wrong with that?) The track ''Feelin' You in Stereo'' gives Mr. Kelly a chance to run yet another absurd sexual metaphor into the ground. (''Girl, you a mix master/When it comes to bumping, you a ghetto blaster/It's such a hit/That I gotta bootleg it.'') ''Stop'' has Jay-Z rattling off some nimble boilerplate (''I do somersaults with lines when someone insults my grind/From Marcy to partying with the sultan of Brunei'') over a double-Dutch-inspired beat. The mood is casual, even slack, and at the end of the horn-driven strut called ''Big Chips'' Mr. Kelly ad-libs some nonsense about vacationing on an island, adding, ''I think I just saw a dolphin.'' But there is one exception: ''Don't Let Me Die,'' a wild and impassioned dose of hard-swinging gospel; when Mr. Kelly sobs, ''I feel like it's 20 of me/Going 20 different directions on a one-way street,'' he seems genuinely terrified. Sometimes, bad ideas sound pretty good. Critic's Choice"}