{"title": "Record Turnout Forecast; Vote Drives Intensify", "body_text": "Legions of get-out-the-vote volunteers, the bloodhounds of democracy, pursued the electorate across a dozen states yesterday as the most expensive and successful voter drive in history drew to a resounding close with experts predicting a record turnout at the polls today. With the excitement of the campaign at a fever pitch and voters so polarized there was almost no one left to convert, nonpartisan election experts said that as many as 121 million Americans might vote, eclipsing the record of 106 million of four years ago. And with the race too close to call, the winner is likely to be the side best able to muster its core supporters, party strategists agreed. On the last day of his two-year campaign for the presidency, Senator John Kerry dashed from Florida to Wisconsin and across the Great Lakes to Michigan and Ohio, basking in the glow of enthusiastic crowds. President Bush, fighting to hold on to the White House, also campaigned across the nation, logging 2,548 miles before heading to his Texas ranch. [Page A23.] As the match went down to the wire, the volunteer armies in Ohio, Florida, Pennsylvania, Michigan and other swing states pounded on doors, rang telephones, stuffed computers and mailboxes and arranged Election Day enticements: free day care for parents, free rides to polling places for elderly or disabled voters, free cookies, tacos, T-shirts and admissions to swimming pools. Even free underwear. Many employers are giving workers time off to vote; one in New York is offering an extra vacation day as a reward for voting. A Pennsylvania professor is giving students extra credit for casting a ballot, and one in New Jersey was reported to have spoken about making voting a requirement for passing her course. If it rains in Cleveland today, volunteers will stand in lines with umbrellas and ponchos to keep voters dry. Most but not all of the volunteers are working for Kerry or Bush victories. But in New Mexico, the Election Protection Coalition, a national, nominally nonpartisan group, deployed hundreds of volunteers in Albuquerque, Santa Fe and other cities to help voters who are often underrepresented -- Hispanics, who make up 42 percent of the 1.8 million New Mexicans, and American Indians, who constitute 10 percent. Lara Jirmanus, legal coordinator for the Albuquerque coalition, said ''inviting people to the polls who haven't felt invited in the past'' was the intent. Four years ago, Al Gore won in New Mexico by 366 votes. The national drive to raise voter participation this year had little to do with civic duty. It was promoted by the major parties and their allies in part by the razor-thin margin in 2000, when Mr. Bush lost the popular vote by half a million ballots but won the election by five electoral votes after a recount fight that went to the Supreme Court. It put Florida in the Bush column by 537 votes out of six million cast. Nationally, the Democrats and the Republicans each claimed to have a million volunteers. Democrats said they had made 23.5 million calls and knocked on eight million doors for Mr. Kerry. Republicans said they had contacted 18 million voters. The numbers were impossible to verify, but there was no doubt they were huge. Voters were besieged by recorded calls from candidates, their wives or star supporters. Many voters were contacted by both sides, sometimes minutes apart. Yesterday, the Kerry forces in Cleveland spoke of a simple Election Day strategy: grab as many people as possible and get them to the polls. ''It's every single person on the streets, every household,'' said Charlene Sinclair, an organizer for Acorn, the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, an independent group working for Mr. Bush's defeat. Ms. Sinclair said dozens of rented vans would be used to search for eligible voters. Republicans in Cleveland planned a highly choreographed ''knock and drag'' effort by 10,000 Cuyahoga County volunteers. ''You have to pull them out of their houses and get them into a car and get them to the polls,'' Jeff Flint, a Republican Party spokesman, explained. Volunteers themselves will be tracked and prodded, if need be, by roving supervisors, he said. Kerry campaign offices in Milwaukee were beehives of activity. Hundreds of volunteers, many from states where the race was not close, moved out in shifts to knock on doors and deliver talks and literature geared to specific types of voters: old or young, newly registered or old guard. The Democrats, too, will mount ''knock and drag'' follow-ups. Both sides used automatic phone dialers in Milwaukee. At a Service Employees International Union office being used by the Kerry campaign, volunteers waited as the machines did the work. When a call was answered, a volunteer read a script about ''the need for change.'' Bush volunteers at another site had a script that said, ''You simply cannot trust John Kerry on the issues that face our country.'' In New Hampshire, Democrats and Republicans focused their forces in the populous southern cities of Manchester and Nashua and the coastal city of Portsmouth. ''We are just going full-throttle here,'' Jayne Millerick, the New Hampshire Republican chairwoman, said. ''We literally have hundreds of people on the street, knocking on doors and reminding people to vote tomorrow, and asking them to vote Republican. The phone banks are doing the same, and we're just going to continue to go until the polls close tomorrow.'' Kathleen Strand, chairwoman of the New Hampshire Democrats, said volunteers were giving special attention to colleges, including Dartmouth and the University of New Hampshire. ''It's absolutely essential we get students to the polls,'' she said. ''If Al Gore had won New Hampshire he'd be president today, and George Bush won by 1 percent of the vote. Every vote counts, every door knock matters, and there are 50,000 students in the state of New Hampshire.'' In Colorado, 60 volunteers canvassed low- and moderate-income Denver neighborhoods for Democrats who might need rides, especially those who rarely bothered to vote. ''These people tend to feel like their vote doesn't count,'' said Les Berry, 48, a technician at Denver International Airport who is taking three vacation days to help. In Minnesota, the Bush campaign claimed to have made more than a million ''voter contacts,'' with thousands of volunteers going door to door and making phone calls. The Kerry campaign headquarters in Minneapolis was bustling with volunteers working the phones, making signs in English and Spanish and crunching numbers on calculators. Others streamed in and out all day, pausing only when the movie actor Josh Hartnett stopped in briefly. ''You have really stepped up,'' Mr. Hartnett told the beaming volunteers. ''I know we're going to win.'' The task was partly completed in some states. In New Mexico, an estimated 42 percent of the 1.1 million registered voters had already cast ballots. In Iowa, election workers began opening outer envelopes containing 63,000 completed ballots -- double the number of early votes cast in 2000. They were to be counted today. THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: LAST-MINUTE EFFORTS"}