{"title": "Arts, Briefly", "body_text": "Managing Janet Jackson Janet Jackson, below, may have caused a furor with her breast-baring wardrobe malfunction during the halftime show at the Super Bowl, but her album ''Damita Jo,'' issued by Virgin in March, didn't. So now she is under new management. She has signed with Wright Crear management, a Los Angeles firm that also handles the Backstreet Boys and the rapper Chingy, according to Reuters and The Hollywood Reporter. Ms. Jackson, who was represented until the spring by Lindsay Scott Management in Los Angeles, sings a duet with Chingy on ''Powerballin','' released today by Capitol Records. Trade News Fans of the reality series ''Wife Swap'' are going to get more of the same. ABC has given the green light to a full season of the show about mothers from different backgrounds who trade households for a couple of weeks, according to Reuters and The Hollywood Reporter. Remembrance of Proust Writers including Louis Begley and Colm Toibin and actors including Barbara Feldon and Maria Tucci will celebrate Marcel Proust, right, at 6:30 p.m. tomorrow in the Celeste Bartos Forum at the New York Public Library at Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street. The occasion is ''The Proust Project: A Discussion with Latter-Day Disciples, Admirers and Shameless Imitators, With Readings of Proust by Selected Actors.'' The evening grew out of ''The Proust Project,'' edited by Andr\u00e9 Aciman and scheduled for publication on Nov. 17. For the book, he invited 28 writers to choose a favorite passage from ''In Search of Lost Time'' and introduce it in a brief essay. Tomorrow Mr. Aciman will moderate the program. Tickets information: (212) 930-0855. Footnotes Eric Bogosian, whose inflamed rants made him a star of Off Broadway and beyond in the mid-1980's, is returning to the stage as the ultimate bad guy in ''The Last Days of Judas Iscariot,'' a new play by Stephen Adly Guirgis coming to the Public Theater. Mr. Bogosian, 51, will play Satan opposite Sam Rockwell as Judas in a play described as a seriocomedy about Judas set in a surreal purgatory. Directed by Philip Seymour Hoffman, performances start on Feb. 8."}