{"title": "Backman Named Arizona's Manager", "body_text": "Wally Backman has always considered himself the scrappy underdog whose attitude inspired teams, a role he embraced while helping the Mets win the 1986 World Series. Backman played as if a pit bull were chasing him. He was all intensity, all the time. Backman will now try to transfer that intense style into resurrecting the Arizona Diamondbacks. He was named their manager yesterday. The 45-year-old Backman, who had briefly been a candidate for the Mets' job, received a two-year contract from the Diamondbacks, who had the worst record in the major leagues this year. Not surprising, the fiery Backman instantly tried to put his imprint on the team. It may be logical to assume that the Diamondbacks must rebuild after a dreadful 51-111 season, but Backman passed by that idea as if barreling over a catcher. ''The one thing that I would like to state, and then I'm kind of going to leave it at that, is this is not a rebuilding program,'' Backman said during a news conference in Phoenix. ''I'm here to win. And that's what I've always been about.'' Backman managed Arizona's Class A Lancaster team to an 86-54 record and into the California League championship this season; The Sporting News named him minor league manager of the year. He referred to his assertiveness often, and it will be intriguing to see how the team reacts to his approach. Before joining the Diamondbacks organization, he managed in the Chicago White Sox organization for three years. He seemed a solid candidate to replace Jerry Manuel in 2003, but the White Sox dismissed him for campaigning for the job while Manuel still had it. Backman has a 410-396 record in eight seasons as a minor league manager. The Mets planned to interview Backman in St. Louis last Wednesday, but he told them his flight from Phoenix was canceled so the interview was rescheduled for the next day. Backman then asked the Mets to remove him from consideration, a signal that he was in line for the Arizona job. ''He expects to win,'' Arizona General Manager Joe Garagiola Jr. said. ''We expect to win and his players will understand that from the first day of spring training.'' The Diamondbacks are eager for Backman to inject aggressiveness into a losing, lifeless team. Backman was suspended twice at Class A Lancaster, including 10 games for bumping an umpire, and was also ejected from six games. While Backman's passionate personality on the field was one of the reasons the Diamondbacks wanted him, it has apparently contributed to some embarrassment off the field. In the last four years, Backman has been arrested after a domestic dispute with his wife, Sandy, and for a drunken driving incident; and he has filed for bankruptcy. Backman was found guilty of driving under the influence on Jan. 3, 2001, in Kennewick, Wash. He spent one day in jail, was fined $560 and was ordered to complete a course on alcohol counseling. Nine months later, Backman was charged with five misdemeanors after an incident with his wife at their home in Prineville, Ore. Backman was convicted of one charge (harassment), was imprisoned for a day, was put on probation for 12 months, was prohibited from drinking alcohol and was told to enter an anger-control treatment program. He was also fined more than $1,000. In February 2003, Backman filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code, which allows debtors to free themselves of most of their debts. Backman, a second baseman, played the first 9 of his 14 seasons in the majors with the Mets and had a .275 lifetime average. A first-round draft pick in 1977, he batted .320 when the Mets won the World Series 18 years ago. Backman cited Davey Johnson, Jim Leyland and Lou Piniella, some of his former managers, as men whose ideas he had absorbed. ''My style is hard, aggressive baseball,'' he said. ''If my brother is the second baseman for the Los Angeles Dodgers and it means taking him out at second base, that's what I expect my players to do.'' INSIDE PITCH In an unexpected decision, Gerry Hunsicker of the Astros resigned yesterday as general manager. Hunsicker had been with Houston for nine seasons. The Astros ended the season one victory away from their first World Series. But Hunsicker explained that he had to get away from the daily baseball grind. Tim Purpura, an assistant general manager, replaced Hunsicker. BASEBALL"}