{"title": "Autopsy Determines Caminiti Died of an Overdose of Drugs", "body_text": "The chief medical examiner's office in New York City reported yesterday that Ken Caminiti, the National League most valuable player in 1996, died from an accidental drug overdose. The report said that Caminiti died Oct. 10 in the Bronx of ''acute intoxication due to the combined effects of cocaine and opiates.'' An autopsy and tissue and toxicology tests were performed on Caminiti. Grace Brugess, a spokeswoman for the medical examiner, said the autopsy showed that coronary artery disease and an enlarged heart contributed to the death. She said that the overdose had weakened Caminiti's heart. Caminiti, 41, had admitted to using steroids during his 15-year career in the major leagues and to using cocaine in recent years. Five days before his death, he told a Houston court that he had tested positive for cocaine a month earlier, violating the terms of his probation. He failed a similar test in February 2002, also violating a probation. The Houston court sentenced him to 180 days in jail, but he was released because of time served in jail and in a state-run drug-treatment facility. He then traveled to New York to help a friend, his agent and lawyer, Rick Licht, said. Licht, speaking by telephone from his office in Los Angeles yesterday, said a former girlfriend of Caminiti's had asked him to help her son, who was in legal trouble. Caminiti went to their home in Brooklyn, Licht said, talked to the son, then went to an apartment in the Bronx. Later in the day, he collapsed there and was taken to a hospital in the Bronx, where he died. ''He led an extraordinary roller coaster of a life,'' Licht said. In an interview that appeared in Sports Illustrated in May 2002, Caminiti said that he started using anabolic steroids in 1996, to help him recover from a shoulder injury, and that he kept using them until he retired. A third baseman, he led the San Diego Padres to a division championship in 1996. That year, he was named M.V.P.; he batted .326 with 40 home runs and 130 runs batted in, all career bests. From 1987 through 2001, Caminiti played for the Houston Astros, San Diego, the Texas Rangers and the Atlanta Braves. A right-handed hitter, he had a career batting average of .272, with 239 home runs and 983 R.B.I. Several months after Sports Illustrated published Caminiti's remarks, baseball adopted a testing program for steroids. BASEBALL"}