{"title": "Silence, Not Assistance, From Ramirez", "body_text": "NOW that Manny Ramirez is the most valuable player of the World Series, he can become a hero, too. But he would have to pay instead of play. Unfortunately, Ramirez has shown no inclination to do what would make him a hero to the young baseball players at George Washington High School in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan. George Washington was Ramirez's high school, the place where he developed and showcased the talent that has made him one of the best hitters and highest-paid players in Major League Baseball. It is a relatively poor school that receives little money for the baseball team. Old uniforms and beaten-up baseballs are what the players often wear and use. With the kind of money Ramirez makes with the Red Sox, he could easily provide financial aid, but he never has. The commissioner's office lists Ramirez's 2004 salary as $20,409,542. Additional payments will bring his baseball income to about $21 million: bonuses of $150,000 for being the World Series M.V.P.; $75,000 for making the All-Star team; a $100,000 bonus for winning a Silver Slugger award, which is very likely; and $300,000 or more as a World Series share. For less than one-tenth of one percent of his income, between $10,000 and $20,000, Ramirez could enable his former team to have new uniforms, new baseballs, new bats. But the George Washington players should not sit around waiting for the contribution. ''Unfortunately, we keep waiting and hoping, but it doesn't happen,'' said Steve Mandl, the George Washington baseball coach now and when Ramirez played on the team from 1989 through 1991. ''He's sort of distancing himself more and more from the school, his community, his friends. He was an icon here. He has become just another superstar whom they like as opposed to the demigod he used to be.'' Mandl said somebody told him recently that Ramirez or an associate said that every time Ramirez comes to the neighborhood, people say, ''gimme, gimme, gimme.'' ''I can understand that,'' Mandl added, ''but I've never asked him for anything. The kids are of Dominican descent, same as he is. Their needs are the same as his were.'' On one or two occasions, Mandl acknowledged, one of his assistants, whom he described as being very close to Ramirez, asked him to pay for something for the team. ''He said, 'Yeah, go ahead and do it.' But we never got the money.'' It is, of course, no one else's business how Ramirez spends his money or to whom he gives or doesn't give some of it. His former agent, Jeff Moorad, now the chief executive of the Arizona Diamondbacks, has said that Ramirez is committed to giving $1 million over the life of his eight-year contract to Latino groups in the Boston area, particularly those that support children. Although Moorad has indicated that Ramirez would eventually do something for the players at George Washington, it hasn't happened. Efforts to elicit comment from Ramirez through the Red Sox' public relations director, Glenn Geffner, and the player's new agent, Scott Parker, were unsuccessful. When Ramirez was initially asked about the matter a couple of years ago, he refused to talk about it. ''I was talking to your old high school baseball coach,'' I began our brief conversation. ''I don't want to talk about that,'' Ramirez said without waiting to hear the question. ''Will you talk about your interest or noninterest in donating anything to the school?'' ''I don't want to talk about that,'' Ramirez said. ''Is that a sore subject with you?'' ''No. You want to talk about the game, I'll talk to you about the game.'' Someone had suggested that Ramirez had a problem with Mandl, so later in the conversation, I asked, ''Is there a problem that can be fixed?'' Ramirez said he didn't have a problem with anybody. ''With Steve Mandl?'' Ramirez repeated that he didn't have a problem with anybody. Many players give something back to their high schools or colleges, especially in these days of multimillion dollar salaries. But Ramirez won't, and he won't talk about it. ''It's kind of sad,'' Mandl said. ''He has his own agenda.'' Moorad once suggested that when Ramirez signed his eight-year contract with Boston four years ago, Mandl tried publicly to induce him to give money to the team. Mandl denied any such effort. Any time he has talked about his former player, Mandl said, it was usually in the interest of trying to protect or defend him. But, Mandl added, a friend of Ramirez's, in relaying the comments to the player, has misinterpreted his words to make them come out the opposite of what the coach has intended. But if Ramirez was turned off by Mandl's public comments then, what happened in the seven years before that when he played for Cleveland and earned slightly more than $15 million? Mandl said he didn't ask Ramirez for money then or later. ''It's not something I've ever discussed with him,'' Mandl said. ''I've never asked him for something and never will. If he comes to me and says, 'I want you to have this, Coach,' I'll say thank you very much. What he does with his money is none of my business.'' But the coach said he had learned from his experience with Ramirez. ''When the kids say to me now we need uniforms, ask Manny,'' Mandl said, ''I say remember that when we come to you.'' On Baseball"}