{"title": "Randolph Appears to Be Leader in the Clubhouse", "body_text": "When the Mets unveiled the finalists for their opening at manager last night, the list was in alphabetical order: Terry Collins, Rudy Jaramillo and Willie Randolph. If it were listed by who had the best chance at the job, it would have probably read: Willie Randolph, Rudy Jaramillo and Terry Collins. All three finalists will return to Shea Stadium tomorrow for a second round of interviews, and the Mets are expected to introduce a manager later in the week. Randolph was considered the favorite when the search began, and he has seemingly done nothing to jeopardize his standing. Jim Duquette, the Mets' senior vice president for baseball operations, contacted Jim Leyland last week to gauge his interest in the position, and team officials discussed whether to interview him. But as of last night, Leyland said he had not heard from the Mets and did not expect to be included in the process. Leyland interviewed with the Philadelphia Phillies yesterday, and even though he has some interest in the Mets, it sounds as if General Manager Omar Minaya prefers to hire a first-time manager. During a phone conversation early last month, Minaya told Leyland he wanted to go with ''a young guy,'' and he has apparently stuck to his plan. ''If they want to interview me, then I'll interview with them,'' said Leyland, 59, a St. Louis Cardinals scout who managed the Pittsburgh Pirates, the Florida Marlins and the Colorado Rockies. ''If they want to talk to me, I'll talk to them. But I think Omar wants a younger manager and I really respect that.'' Minaya released a statement through a club spokesman last night that said he spoke with Leyland during the World Series and they agreed that Leyland would call Minaya after the interview in Philadelphia. Minaya said he had not heard from Leyland as of last night. Minaya interviewed five candidates in the first round and eliminated two former managers -- Carlos Tosca and Jim Riggleman. Among the finalists, Randolph and Jaramillo have never managed. Randolph served as the Yankees' bench coach last season, and Jaramillo was the Texas Rangers' hitting coach. Collins was fired twice, first in Houston, then in Anaheim, where players complained about his fiery style and petitioned the general manager for his dismissal. Minaya indicated last week that a second round of interviews would be used only to repeat what was said in the first round and help him reach a decision. The fact that all three interviews are scheduled for the same day suggests they will be much shorter than the initial meetings. Most of the factors seem to favor Randolph, who emerged from the first round sounding confident. He referred to the Mets as ''we'' and ''us'' and volunteered that he had begun outlining a coaching staff. Mets officials have insisted that they are pleased with all the finalists, citing Collins's energy, Jaramillo's expertise and Randolph's overall improvement. The Mets interviewed Randolph two years ago, and this time around, he has come across as better prepared. INSIDE PITCH The Mets will buy out the final year of outfielder Richard Hidalgo's contract for $2 million, rather than pick up the $15 million option. The Mets could still bring back Hidalgo at a reduced rate. BASEBALL"}