{"title": "Yankees Seem to Be Interested in Milton", "body_text": "After they lost Andy Pettitte to free agency last winter, the Yankees never found a reliable left-hander to replace him in the rotation. They had only 11 starts from left-handers in 2004, the fewest in any season in 57 years. That may change soon. If the Yankees are interested in Eric Milton as a free agent, he is interested in them. Milton filed for free agency yesterday, and he may explore the idea of returning to the organization that drafted him in the first round in 1996. Milton, 29, spent last season with the Philadelphia Phillies after pitching for Minnesota for six years. The Yankees had traded him to the Twins in the Chuck Knoblauch deal in 1998. ''I think there are many people within the organization that felt, 'It's a matter of time before we get him back,''' said Milton's agent, Casey Close. Close also represents Derek Jeter. ''It's kind of the way the Yankees operate. They like their own. ''They hated to part with him at the time, but the opportunity to come back is always there when you're a free agent. Now, we've reached that point. I think he's intrigued by the possibility.'' Close said Milton also had an interest in returning to Philadelphia, where he went 14-6 with a 4.75 earned run average last season. Another left-hander, the Los Angeles Dodgers' Odalis Perez, also filed for free agency yesterday. Two other left-handers, David Wells and Al Leiter -- who has a $10 million mutual option on his Mets contract -- have not yet filed; Leiter is expected to remain with the Mets. Teams have exclusive negotiating rights with their own free agents until midnight Nov. 11. The Yankees have until midnight Saturday to exercise their $8 million option on starter Jon Lieber, who will become a free agent if they decline. ''I have no doubt that they do want him back,'' Rex Gary, Lieber's agent, said. ''They shouldn't have any doubt that Jon wants to come back.'' If the Yankees decide $8 million is too high for next season, they could try to re-sign Lieber to a multiyear contract with a lower base salary for next year. The Yankees could try to trade for Arizona's Randy Johnson, 41. They failed to acquire him last July and have nothing more to trade now. The principal owner, George Steinbrenner, wants the rotation to get younger, but he could be lured by the free agent Pedro Mart\u00ednez, who is expected to file for free agency soon. The best young pitcher on the market may be Carl Pavano, a right-hander who will be 29 in January and who went 18-8 last season for Florida. Pavano has not yet filed for free agency; his agent, Scott Shapiro, said he wanted to meet first with Marlins General Manager Larry Beinfest. ''In this market, I think there's going to be a premium on starting pitching,'' Shapiro said. ''I don't know if the Marlins have the financial wherewithal to provide what amounts to a competitive bid.'' Shapiro said Pavano would be open to playing for the Yankees, the Mets or the Boston Red Sox. The right-hander Derek Lowe and catcher Jason Varitek were among 10 Red Sox who filed for free agency yesterday. Also filing were shortstop Orlando Cabrera; the backup catcher Doug Mirabelli; the right-handers Curtis Leskanic, Ramiro Mendoza and Scott Williamson; the left-hander Mike Myers; first baseman Dave McCarty; and second baseman Pokey Reese. BASEBALL"}