{"title": "O'Neal Ventures Into New Partnership", "body_text": "Shaquille O'Neal looked up from his chair and locked eyes with Dwyane Wade as Wade interrupted O'Neal's audience with the assembled news media. ''Bah, bah, bah,'' Wade said playfully over O'Neal's soft rolling speech. O'Neal raised an eyebrow in a half-mocking rebuke of Wade, who knew when to duck away. Wade did not see O'Neal turn back to his audience, his upper lip curling subtly into a smile that seemed to suggest that this time, things would be different. ''I knew what I was doing when I asked to be traded,'' O'Neal said. The scene at practice a week before the start of the N.B.A. season offered a window into O'Neal's grand new world in Miami, but also a reminder of his previous palm-tree stops. O'Neal has left his size-22EEE imprint on the league in 12 years and during three championship seasons, but the backcourt company he kept and left in Orlando and Los Angeles has also defined his Hall of Fame career. His partnerships with Penny Hardaway and Kobe Bryant started with similar honeymoon moments of shared purpose before turning into feuds over team identity. In Hollywood, a feud exploded into a public and messy divorce. ''I'm intelligent enough to know when the ship that I'm not controlling is sinking,'' O'Neal said in an interview last week. ''I'm smart enough to get off, get on the raft, go all the way from the Pacific, get a ship and be over here in the Atlantic.'' Ultimately, the success of the Heat's tidal-wave trade for O'Neal will rest on the emerging partnership of O'Neal and Wade, and on how quickly they can make their teammates better. O'Neal, 32, left more than bitterness in Los Angeles. At 331 pounds, he is 34 pounds lighter than he was last season. He is particularly conscious of not repeating the past with Wade. ''I learned from my experiences,'' he said. ''I just got to be a little different with him. I'll probably never raise my voice, but I'm going to stay on him.'' When the Heat completed the trade with the Lakers on July 14, O'Neal was the one welcoming Wade. ''He told me, everything I heard about him, you could throw it out the window, that he's one of the coolest guys you'd want to meet,'' Wade recalled after practice last week. ''He said, 'I'm coming down here to make you an All-Star, help us win a championship.''' Wade, 22, was in awe. When they met in Miami, O'Neal said he took Wade to a club to discuss the ins and outs of Hardaway and Bryant. ''I said, 'Look, this is what went on and we got to make sure it never happens between us,''' O'Neal said. ''And it won't. Because I come out here to do something for Pat, do something for myself,'' he added, referring to the Heat president, Pat Riley. ''And it's going to get done. It's a different type of team.'' The difference starts with Wade, who is married with a 2-year-old son. Riley calls Wade, the fifth pick in the 2003 draft, a throwback because of his selfless personality and professionalism. A year after Wade led Marquette to the N.C.A.A. Final Four, he led the Heat to the Eastern Conference semifinals as a rookie. With an explosive first step, he can drive and pass and execute a pick-and-roll as doggedly as he can defend against it. A quiet leader, he was the team's top scorer in the playoffs (18 points a game). At the Olympics, he led the United States team in steals (17). Larry Brown, the United States coach, came to rely on Wade, playing him more than the higher-profile rookies LeBron James and Carmelo Anthony. In Athens, Wade did not shoot well -- in part because he hesitated in Brown's system -- but no one else on the team shot well either. Wade eagerly returned to Miami to begin learning the finer art of throwing the ball in to O'Neal. At the news conference/parade to introduce him in Miami, O'Neal promised the city a championship and proclaimed, ''This is Dwyane Wade's team.'' That claim might have held, Riley said, if the Heat not sold 4,000 season tickets on the mere rumor that O'Neal was coming. A Shaq in Black banner hangs outside the arena. Wade has no illusions about whose team it is. ''I got one of the best players in the world, I'm going to take that as a blessing,'' Wade said. ''I'm a team player, always have been, always will be. Everybody's got their own agendas, of course. Everyone is going to get what they want if they do it as a team -- that's the motto I go by.'' The intriguing question about the Heat this season is how far it can go with nine new players, after trading Lamar Odom, Caron Butler and Brian Grant for O'Neal. ''Is there depth and are the other players good enough?'' Jerry West, the Memphis Grizzlies' president, said. ''Pat did a good job of surrounding Shaq with shooters.'' Riley sold O'Neal on the talent of the young forwards Rasual Butler and Udonis Haslem. Riley then brought in Damon Jones, Wesley Person and Keyon Dooling. Michael Doleac and Wang Zhizhi are O'Neal's backups. The veteran guard Eddie Jones, who led the team in scoring last season (17.3 points a game), considers himself the X-factor. Opponents are quick to caution that the addition of O'Neal does not make for an instant title. But O'Neal, playing with a California-sized chip on his shoulder after averaging 11.5 rebounds and a career-low 21.5 points last season, presents a physical and mental challenge for every opponent. ''There's no one in the league who can match up with him,'' Donnie Walsh, the Indiana Pacers' president, said. ''I've never seen a situation like that.'' Riley is trying to rein in expectations. ''I don't know if you can say this is going to be a championship team this year,'' he said. ''I think the upside for improvement is a lot better than other teams.'' Stan Van Gundy, the coach who took over when Riley resigned last season, wants to see a defensive improvement from a team that went 4-3 in the preseason. He cannot worry about the big what-if -- injury. O'Neal has missed 25 games in each of the last three seasons, mostly because of an arthritic toe and a sore knee. ''We played two games in the preseason without Shaq; we can do it,'' Van Gundy said. ''Obviously, that's not what we prefer.'' O'Neal remains bothered by a left hamstring pull sustained early in training camp, but he says he is still hopeful that he can play the opener at the Nets tomorrow. (Detroit tips off the season against visiting Houston tonight). When Riley asked him to drop from 365 pounds, O'Neal curtailed lifting weights and began four hours of cardiovascular training a day. O'Neal's determination is in line with Wade's. ''He's an all-around player -- he doesn't only make me better, he makes everybody better,'' O'Neal said. ''Every championship team has a 1-2 punch, guys that are going to do their thing every night and the guys around them.'' O'Neal seems re-energized as a teacher, a role he found trying with Bryant and Hardaway. ''I got both of those guys when they were young,'' O'Neal said. ''It was my job to keep them on track, or I was told to keep them on track. And that didn't work. ''The other two guys were into themselves, and you had to do this all the time. That gets tiresome. I tried to be a big brother, but the people upstairs were like, 'Kobe do this, do that.' When stuff is not done right, you're in trouble.'' Hardaway, 33, was encouraged to hear that O'Neal had gone out of his way to embrace Wade. ''That's good, Dwyane is getting a more mature, really understanding guy that's a veteran,'' said Hardaway, a reserve guard for the Knicks. ''That's why he's bringing way more to the Miami Heat than just his presence.'' O'Neal is living on exclusive Star Island, between South Beach and the arena, alongside neighbors like Gloria Estefan and the rapper P. Diddy. O'Neal purchased a furnished house (customized for the former Heat center Rony Seikaly) for nearly $20 million for his wife and five children. A rapper, an actor and a perpetual marketer, he is stimulated by the new possibilities in Miami. O'Neal, alias Superman or Diesel or Shaq Daddy, has already nicknamed Wade after a superhero. ''I was watching this kid play the other day, and he was so fast, so I thought, 'Flash,' we can do a lot with that,'' O'Neal said. ''Maybe DC Comics will be calling.'' Wade said he would leave the creativity to O'Neal. ''I'm going to do whatever I can to make what he said about me look right,'' he said. Could this be the beginning of an enduring partnership, worthy of Magic and Kareem? ''I don't really look at that,'' Wade said. ''Shaq is Shaq. If I continue to get better, I think it could be something that could be talked about without all the problems.'' PRO BASKETBALL"}