{"title": "Whither the Met's Artistic Priorities? It Depends Who's Doing What", "body_text": "The Metropolitan Opera sometimes seems as impenetrable a place as the Pentagon. So naturally, mystified opera buffs are abuzz with speculation over the unexpected announcement that Peter Gelb, a recording executive who during years of economic woe for the industry kept the Sony Classical label afloat with hugely profitable crossover projects and film soundtracks, will be the Met's next general manager, succeeding Joseph Volpe in 2006. But before knowing what to make of Mr. Gelb's appointment, we have to ask what exactly the job will involve in the post-Volpe era? There is a relatively standard set of skills required to manage an orchestra, whether it's the New York Philharmonic or the Santa Rosa Symphony. Opera is a much more complicated endeavor, and different companies demand different mixes of skills from chief executives. If the company has a strong artistic director or a principal conductor with wide authority, then it may need a whiz-bang administrator. But at some opera companies the general manager is the de facto artistic director, especially regarding matters of production and staging. Much is being made of Mr. Gelb's inexperience in running an institution as complicated as the Met. Can he handle union negotiations, oversee fund-raising drives, cultivate good relations with the board and head a staff of 850 full-time and 1,200 part-time employees? I don't doubt that after working for a preparatory year under Mr. Volpe, an unabashed micromanager who started at the company as a carpenter, Mr. Gelb will get the hang of things. But what will his artistic priorities be? This question can't be answered without knowing what James Levine intends his own role to be now that his title has been downsized from artistic director to music director. Will Mr. Levine, busy in his new job as music director of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, and Mr. Gelb divvy up the artistic responsibilities? It's not yet clear -- not even, I suspect, to them. The Met as an institution and opera fans everywhere can only be grateful that Mr. Levine has devoted himself so intensely to the company for more than 30 years. Still, one fair criticism of his tenure is that in the last decade or so he has not been as involved as an artistic director should be with the overall artistic profile of the company, at least for the nights when he has not been on the podium. Mr. Levine has tended to pick his battles. It was crucial to him that the Met become a company where major works of the 20th century, like Berg's ''Wozzeck'' and ''Lulu'' and Stravinsky's ''Rake's Progress,'' turned up at least as often as repertory works like Verdi's ''Trovatore'' or Wagner's ''Tannh\u00e4user.'' And when he felt it essential for the company to make a major artistic statement, Mr. Levine usually got his way. For example, the Berlioz bicentenary was acknowledged with a superbly cast and ambitious new production of the epic ''Les Troyens'' and a colorful Met premiere production of the unfamiliar ''Benvenuto Cellini.'' But as a tradeoff, Mr. Levine has willingly let others, including Mr. Volpe, decide how often to bring back ''Tosca,'' or what director to hire for a new production of ''Carmen.'' Mr. Levine's other concession, a more serious one, has been to back off from pushing the Met to commission new works and present significant recent operas introduced elsewhere. Mr. Levine's interest in contemporary music is a genuine passion, not an intellectual pose. But as of this fall, he has another outlet for contemporary music: the Boston Symphony. To judge from the ecstatic reaction to Mr. Levine's inaugural concert on Oct. 22 (an exhilarating performance of Mahler's mighty Eighth Symphony), Boston audiences are thrilled to have him. And to judge from the programs he is conducting this season, rich with works by Gyorgy Ligeti, Lutoslawski and Schoenberg, and premieres by Elliott Carter, Charles Wuorinen, Milton Babbitt and John Harbison, the orchestra's directors and players support Mr. Levine's adventurous vision. Given the bracing challenges that await him in Boston, it is hard to imagine his getting too excited about conducting the new production of Gounod's ''Faust'' at the Met this season. My guess is that if he stays healthy and fulfills his commitment to the Met through 2011, his focus will still inexorably shift to Boston. Mr. Gelb would thus be in position to fill any vacuum. I had hoped that Mr. Volpe's successor would be someone interested in cultivating opera as a continuing art form. Mr. Gelb has been quick to blame the problems facing classical music -- aging audiences, lack of interest among young people, the calcification of the repertory -- on elitist composers, academics and critics who espouse, as he sees it, cerebral, complex music that nobody wants to hear. He has called for a revolution in programming that will be sympathetic to ''accessible'' music of broader appeal. You never hear theater impresarios complaining that challenging, literate and brainy plays like Michael Frayn's ''Copenhagen'' and Tom Stoppard's ''Invention of Love'' are not accessible or that they lack audience appeal. But directors of orchestras and opera companies routinely blame their own timidity on supposedly resistant audiences. In my experience, when an opera company really believes in a challenging new work, and when that conviction comes through in the production and the performance, audiences will respond. Part of the excitement of attending the premiere of Kaija Saariaho's mesmerizing and musically compelling ''Amour de Loin'' at the Salzburg Festival in 2000 and the premiere of Thomas Ad\u00e8s's brash and audacious adaptation of Shakespeare's ''Tempest'' this year came from being among listeners who sensed that we were attending the birth of formidable and authentic new works. Mr. Gelb surely knows Ms. Saariaho's music, for there is a splendid 2001 Sony Classical recording of several of her works, conducted by Esa-Pekka Salonen. Will Mr. Gelb bring Ms. Saariaho's opera to the Met? And Mr. Ad\u00e8s's? And other significant recent operas? What about future commissions? It's hard to know what role Mr. Levine played in commissioning the next two operas the Met will unveil (by Tobias Picker and Tan Dun), since he is not scheduled to conduct either work. Will he and Mr. Gelb find it easier to agree on composers? These questions matter to the future of the Met just as much as who directs the next new production of Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle. The Met has made its choice, and Mr. Gelb, an accomplished executive, deserves a chance to prove himself. But please, Mr. Gelb, no crossover opera! CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK"}