{"title": "From Bush, a Late Call for Support Across Party Lines", "body_text": "President Bush, fighting to hang on to the White House, campaigned furiously on Monday at raucous rallies across the breadth of the United States and then headed in the small hours hours of Election Day toward the silence of his Texas ranch. From 6:30 a.m., when the presidential motorcade left a downtown Cincinnati illuminated only by streetlamps, to 1:40 a.m. Tuesday, when his Marine One helicopter was scheduled to touch down in the darkness of Prairie Chapel Ranch, near Waco, Mr. Bush logged 2,548 miles and 19 straight hours at seven rallies in six states, five of them too close to call -- and all essential to a victory should he lose Florida. ''That finish line is in sight,'' Mr. Bush told reporters as he arrived in Pittsburgh, his second stop of the day. ''And I just want to assure you I've got the energy, the optimism and the enthusiasm to cross the line.'' At each stop, Mr. Bush exhorted the crowd to vote in an election in which the winner is almost certain to be the man who turns out more of his own party's supporters. ''I'm here to ask for your help,'' Mr. Bush said at his first stop in an airport hangar in rural Wilmington, Ohio, where Marine One roared to a halt soon after dawn. ''You get your friends and neighbors to go to the polls. Find our fellow Republicans, wise independents and discerning Democrats and tell them, if they want a safer America and a stronger America and a better America, to put me and Dick Cheney back in office.'' In Milwaukee, his third stop, Mr. Bush rallied supporters only a few blocks and an hour apart from his opponent, Senator John Kerry. Later, parts of the two men's motorcades crossed paths near the airport, as a bus of White House reporters drove past Mr. Kerry's campaign plane, which was parked on the other side of the airport from Air Force One. For the last rally of the day, Mr. Bush returned home to Texas, into a jammed sports arena at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, where his wife, Laura, went to college, for an 11 p.m. rally filled with thousands of young people waving red and white ''W'' signs and one reading ''First Cowboy.'' It was a rarity for Mr. Bush, who is usually in bed by that hour. But this evening, the ''Victory in Texas'' rally was the final stop of the final stretch, before the helicopter trip to his ranch. Even more of a rarity, Mr. Bush was running late, after an 18-hour, seven-day tour that clearly left the president unusually emotional. ''Ten years ago, when I ran for governor, we had our last campaign rally in Dallas,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I have a pretty good feeling texas is going to be a red state tomorrow.'' EarlierMonday Mr. Bush's aides, after asserting for weeks that they were confident and calm, finally admitted in the last marathon stretch that they were on edge. But they said the president was serene. ''Everybody's nervous,'' said Mark McKinnon, the president's chief media strategist. ''He has a total Zen attitude about it.'' Mr. McKinnon said that Mr. Bush was playing a running game of gin rummy throughout the day with Karl Rove, the White House political adviser, and other longtime aides in the conference room on Air Force One and that he felt he had done everything he had to do to win. ''He knew he had to earn it, not inherit it,'' Mr. McKinnon said. He added: ''I think both campaigns will go out swinging and say we left it all on the field. They ran tough and hard and we ran tough and hard.'' Notably, Mr. McKinnon spoke about the recent polls with less bravado than other Bush advisers in the closing days of the campaign, and made no promises of the outcome. ''We averaged it all out, and the numbers over the last week have been good for us -- better for us, anyway,'' Mr. McKinnon said. ''Ultimately, you can argue the numbers either way, but my acid test, at the end of the day, is I'd rather be us than them going into the final 24 hours.'' The race was so excruciatingly close for the White House that Mr. Bush spent some of the last hours of what he says will be his last campaign without his wife at his side. Mrs. Bush, after accompanying the president from Cincinnati to Wilmington, flew separately to rallies in Cleveland and Clinton Township, Mich., where she echoed the president's stump lines. ''Tomorrow, we face a choice between an America that is uncertain in the face of danger, or an America that takes decisive action to defeat terror and to spread liberty,'' she told a crowd at the International Exposition Center in a Democratic corner of Ohio. Mr. Bush apologized to the crowd in Burgettstown, Pa., for his wife's absence, saying that ''she's off on her own for a while, which is wise use of her time.'' Or, as Mr. McKinnon put it, ''In a tight race you want to make sure you have as many checkers on the board as you can.'' The White House dispatched Vice President Dick Cheney to Hawaii, where he spoke late Sunday night at a rally in Honolulu. Then he immediately turned around and flew to a rally in Colorado Springs long enough to make fun of the camouflage outfit that Mr. Kerry wore on a recent Ohio goose-hunting trip. ''If you want my opinion of the whole thing, John Kerry's goose is cooked,'' Mr. Cheney told a crowd at the Penrose Equestrian Center. The White House also announced that Mr. Bush would break with usual practice and campaign well into Election Day, on a stop in Columbus, Ohio, en route to Washington after voting Tuesday morning at the firehouse in Crawford, Tex. THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT"}