{"title": "Giants Rookie Sweats The Details", "body_text": "Giants safety Gibril Wilson talks every week about how much he depends on the players around him. His fellow safety Brent Alexander coaches him constantly on the field between plays. The cornerbacks add their pointers. In the meetings, they all make sure he is paying attention to the right details. ''I would be lost without them,'' Wilson said. But somewhere along the way, while everyone worried how a rookie would handle being rushed into the starting lineup with two safeties out for the season, Wilson's defensive teammates are realizing that they would be the ones utterly lost without him. It was a lesson they learned again Sunday in an impressive defensive performance against the Vikings. Wilson led the team in tackles and had an interception. ''I couldn't play at the level he's playing at when I was a rookie,'' said defensive end Michael Strahan, shaking his head and marveling at his teammate. ''He's so much more advanced than any rookie I've ever seen. He's played like he's been here forever. He's definitely the best rookie I've ever played with and I've played with a lot of good ones.'' Strahan, a 12-year veteran, then pronounced Wilson the most valuable player on the defense. That is quite a compliment for a player the Giants snatched in the fifth round of the draft last April with no fanfare. Wilson was a two-year starter at Tennessee who had a reputation as a fierce tackler. His speed caught the attention of the Giants' scouts. But at 6 feet and 197 pounds only after a big meal, Wilson does not look like anyone's prototypical big-hitting safety. At 22, he still looks like a teenager. And no one, not even the Giants' personnel gurus, foresaw Wilson jumping into such a huge role so quickly after injuries sidelined the veterans Shaun Williams and Omar Stoutmire early in the season. Wilson has made plays from every spot on the field. He has three interceptions and two sacks, leads the team in tackles and is coming off perhaps his best game of the season. He had one interception against Vikings quarterback Daunte Culpepper and could have had another. He single-handedly broke up a screen pass by slicing between two blockers to make the tackle. He was caught blitzing on a run play to the other side, but he still caught the runner and dragged him down from behind. ''He played the way we have come to expect him to play,'' Coach Tom Coughlin said. ''He played with outstanding energy and anticipation. He was very physical. The screen that he broke up was a very good play. He had an interception, and I told him he might have had two more.'' Although his coaches and teammates watch film and marvel at his abilities, Wilson said he saw mostly mistakes. While everyone else is forgetting he is a rookie, he gets reminders all the time. He said that without Alexander's guidance, he would not be able to recognize all the shifts in the opposing offense, small changes that can make a big difference in how a defense should react. ''There was plenty of stuff that I messed up on,'' Wilson said of his game against the Vikings. ''By far, that was not a good game by any means.'' On the play when he intercepted Culpepper, he said he was scrambling to cover a receiver he had mistakenly let run by him. He was closing on tight end Jermaine Wiggins when Culpepper threw the ball short, and Wilson snagged it. The trick has been having the speed and awareness to make up for his mistakes. He also has a knack for pouncing on the other team's mistakes. Snatching turnovers has become the backbone of the Giants' surprising defense -- they are tied for the league lead in turnover differential at plus-12 with Detroit -- and Wilson has led the way. ''He's a young guy that has a lot of talent and a lot of spunk,'' cornerback Will Allen said. ''He flies around out there. That's what we need. I think he's more athletic than most safeties, so he can make a lot of plays. ''Bottom line, he's helping us win. No doubt about that.'' EXTRA POINTS The Giants are awaiting test results on linebacker Barrett Green, who left Sunday's game with a sprained knee and a sprained ankle. The amount of swelling suggested the injuries were not minor. Center Shaun O'Hara will spend another few days in a Manhattan hospital trying to fight off an infection in his leg. Coach Tom Coughlin said he had no idea how long O'Hara's recovery would be. Coughlin praised the backup center Wayne Lucier for his performance in the tough environment of the Metrodome. PRO FOOTBALL"}