{"title": "Jets Are at Top of Their Game, and Back at Top of the Heap", "body_text": "What hangover? After spending the week facing questions on how they would rebound from their disappointing loss to New England, the Jets turned in a commanding 41-14 victory over Miami on Monday night, their most complete game of the season. The Jets had two runners with at least 100 yards -- Curtis Martin with 115 yards on 19 carries, and LaMont Jordan with 115 yards on 14 carries -- for the first time since 1975. The Jets' wide receivers, who had caught only one touchdown all season, caught two on Monday. And then there was Pennington, who was 11 of 19 passing for 189 yards. The defense was just as impressive. The linemen put pressure on Dolphins quarterback Jay Fiedler all game, sacking him four times. The secondary held the Miami receivers to 218 yards and intercepted two of Fiedler's passes. And the Dolphins were held to 78 yards rushing. ''We hadn't had a game where all three phases played well,'' Coach Herman Edwards said. ''But tonight was our night.'' It was precisely the kind of victory that the Jets needed to wash the taste of last week's loss to the Patriots out of their mouths. The victory also allowed the Jets to keep pace with New England and Pittsburgh, who are also 6-1, as the top teams in the American Football Conference. ''That was our mind-set coming in tonight,'' Edwards said. ''We wanted to keep pace with the Patriots and obviously the Steelers.'' The Jets matched their victory total from last season and also notched the 300th victory in the franchise's 44-year history. The success of the Jets' offense was all the more impressive considering that it came against a Miami defense that entered the game ranked fifth over all. The Jets' total of 275 yards rushing was a single-game high in the league this season. ''I think our team showed what we're made of,'' Pennington said. The cylinders began firing halfway through the first quarter after the Jets forced their 15th turnover of the season, when safety Reggie Tongue jarred the ball loose from Dolphins tight end Donald Lee. Taking over at their 49 , the Jets went to work quickly. Curtis Martin ran for 17 yards in 2 plays, including a 14-yard gain that was largely made possible by a strong pulling block by guard Jonathan Goodwin. Then, on first-and-10 from the Dolphins' 35 , the Jets lined up with three receivers to the left side of the formation. Wayne Chrebet lined up and Pennington found him for a touchdown pass on a seam route with 7 minutes 32 seconds left in the first. It was the only the second touchdown by a Jets wide receiver this season and the first since Jonathan Carter scored in the season opener against Cincinnati. There would be more catches and more touchdowns for the receivers, but not until the Jets went through a stretch in which they struggled to convert third downs, much as they did early in the season. On the next four drives, the Jets got great field position. None of their drives started deeper than their 37, but each ended with a punt after three plays. Some of the Jets' struggles on third down could be attributed to the solid play of the Dolphins' defense. In the teams' first meeting last month, the Dolphins held the Jets to their lowest third-down conversion rate of the season, 1 for 11. But some of the Jets' difficulties seemed to stem from a lack of execution. On consecutive series -- both on third and 2 -- Pennington threw a slant pass too high for Justin McCareins and was sacked. The first third-down conversion by either team came in the second quarter on the Dolphins' first scoring drive. Pinned at their 9, the Dolphins moved forward when Fiedler connected with tight end Randy McMichael on a 28-yard pass on a seam route. It was an excellent throw by Fiedler, who threaded the ball to McMichael despite excellent coverage by Jets linebacker Eric Barton, who ran stride for stride with him. Besides the big gain, Miami benefited when defensive end John Abraham -- who had already sacked Fiedler once and had hurried him on several other occasions -- left the game. The Dolphins took advantage of Abraham's absence, moving 34 yards before Abraham returned. The Dolphins capped the drive with a 21-yard touchdown pass to McMichael with 4:42 left in the first half. The score seemed to spark the Jets. On their next series, they converted their first third down of the game on a 14-yard run by Jordan on third and 1. The Jets ended the drive with a 27-yard touchdown pass to McCareins with 1:17 left in the half. On the play, McCareins ran at the Dolphins' perennial Pro Bowl cornerback Sam Madison before making an out cut so sharp that Madison seemed to lose his footing. But it was too late. McCareins pulled in the ball, tiptoed along the sideline and nudged the tip of the ball over the pylon at the goal line. ''I told him next time don't be so dramatic,'' Edwards said. ''Just touch the cone.'' It was the first of six consecutive scores by the Jets' offense. After another three plays and out by the Dolphins, the Jets got the ball back with 20 seconds left in the first half. They moved 39 yards in 4 plays to set up a 49-yard field goal by Doug Brien as the half expired to put the Jets ahead, 17-7. The Jets took the field after halftime seemingly buoyed by their proficiency at the end of the first half. The scores came quickly -- Martin on a 25-yard touchdown run, a Chris Baker touchdown catch from Pennington, another Brien field goal, Jordan scoring from 25 yards out -- until the Jets rang up 34 unanswered points. The Jets led by 34-7 in the fourth quarter. The score was reminiscent of the last time the Jets and the Dolphins met on Monday night. That was in 2000, when Miami carried a 30-7 lead into the fourth quarter, then gave it all back in a 40-37 overtime victory for the Jets. Moving the team with a hurry-up offense, Fiedler, who was the quarterback in the 2000 loss, seemed determined to try to complete the role reversal with a comeback of his own. But facing third and one, Fiedler dropped back and aimed a ball to McMichael that was intercepted by safety Jon McGraw. There would be no comeback. Not on the Jets' night. PRO FOOTBALL"}