{"title": "Vilma, Overachieving Understudy", "body_text": "In pro football, it is usually understood that a starter should not lose his first-string status because of injury. But what are the Jets to do if and when the veteran Sam Cowart returns from his knee injury and is ready to play middle linebacker? Cowart's role again was filled Monday night by Jonathan Vilma, who excelled once more, this time in a 41-14 victory over the Miami Dolphins at Giants Stadium as the Jets raised their record to 6-1. Vilma is a first-round draft choice (12th over all) from the other Miami team, the Hurricanes. This was only his fifth start in the most demanding position on the defense. ''This was fun,'' Vilma said. ''It reminded me of the good old days at Miami. Asked what grade he would give himself, he said: ''A B, maybe a B-plus. I'm just getting more comfortable with making the right reads faster.'' He played with a poise beyond his experience and the skill of an emerging star with several starring moments in a prime-time showcase on national television. On the first play from scrimmage in the second quarter, Vilma slipped past the Dolphins blockers, cut sharply to his left and chased down the ball carrier Travis Minor. He flung Minor to the ground for a loss of a yard. When the Dolphins had to punt, Vilma stayed on with the coverage team and engaged Morlon Greenwood, a fellow Big East Conference linebacker from Syracuse, in a blocking contest that included several jousts in various spots of the field. It ended with Vilma trotting to the sideline as Greenwood spoke to Jeff Rice, the umpire. Early in the third quarter, after the Jets took a 24-7 lead, Vilma stifled a Miami drive when he helped defensive tackle Jason Ferguson sack quarterback Jay Fiedler for a loss of 14 yards. Early in the fourth quarter, he pressured Fiedler in the pocket to help create an interception by free safety Jon McGraw. Late in the quarter, when Miami's Sammy Morris caught a pass in the left flat and turned toward the end zone, Vilma threw him down for a 1-yard loss at the Jets' 3-yard line. No position on defense is more central to the alignment or crucial to a unit's performance than Vilma's. In a 4-3 set, the middle linebacker faces the sideline to learn the alignment and assignments from the coaches before calling or signaling the plan to his 10 teammates. This demands a calm demeanor and quick communication. Once the play starts, the middle linebacker must quickly decide whether to rush the passer, pursue a running back or cover a receiver. A hesitation or bad decision can instantly overburden a teammate and result in a big gain or even a touchdown. ''Jonathan is improving every week,'' Jets Coach Herman Edwards said. ''That's what he does. He made some big plays again tonight. That's why you draft a guy like that.'' Asked whether he expected Vilma to be so savvy so soon, Edwards said: '' You knew that when you drafted the guy. You knew what you were getting.'' For a first-year player to step into such responsibility and handle it so well is notable. In the games in which Vilma has been a starter, his team has given up 9, 14, 14, 13 and 14 points. He entered the lineup during the second game of the season after Cowart hurt his knee against San Diego late in the second quarter. Vilma's first professional start was on Oct. 3 at Miami, where he was watched by friends and family in his hometown. Vilma has 27 tackles, a sack and an interception this season. The interception was important. It came on Oct. 17 against San Francisco when the Jets led by 15-14 with 1 minute 44 seconds remaining. After he returned the Tim Rattay pass for 14 yards to the 49ers' 20-yard line, the Jets scored to increase their lead to 22-14, the final score. Unlike many defenders who enter and leave the game depending on down and distance situations, Vilma plays every down on scrimmage plays in addition to working on special teams for punts and kickoffs. At 6 feet 1 inch and 230 pounds, the 22-year-old Vilma is showing great potential. Cowart, who is 29, is a seven-year veteran and a former All-Pro player with Buffalo. At the very least, when he returns, the Jets will have depth. Vilma offered no solution to the team's dilemma. ''Leave it to the coaches,'' he said. PRO FOOTBALL"}