{"title": "A Beloved Mouse in Toe Shoes", "body_text": "There was a mouse on stage on Sunday afternoon during American Ballet Theater's performance at City Center, but nobody shrieked with fright. Instead, this mouse drew squeals of delight, for Ballet Theater was being visited by Angelina, the heroine of ''Angelina Ballerina,'' a popular children's book about a dancing mouse written by Katharine Holabird and illustrated by Helen Craig. Angelina -- or more accurately, a human being portraying her -- starred in ''The Ballerina,'' a new little ballet choreographed for the Halloween matinee by Kevin McKenzie, Ballet Theater's artistic director. While David LaMarche played excerpts from Schumann's ''Carnaval'' on an onstage piano, Angelina frisked about. Then she watched Veronika Part and Maxim Beloserkovsky in a pas de deux that had both dreamy and peppy moments. Angelina joined them in its finale and was awarded a bouquet during the curtain call. This was not the only appearance by Angelina, who was played by the woman who impersonates her at all promotional events featuring this character and who prefers not to reveal her name. During pauses between ballets, she and Susan Jaffe, a former ballerina of the company, went in front of the curtain and discussed the works to be performed next. All were pleasantly danced. Gillian Murphy and Marcelo Gomes starred in George Balanchine's ''Theme and Variations.'' Michele Wiles and David Hallberg were secure in the many difficult balances of Victor Gsovsky's ''Grand Pas Classique.'' Looking appropriately tender and dreamy, Maria Riccetto made her debut in the role of the Young Girl in Michel Fokine's ''Spectre de la Rose,'' in which Herman Cornejo was once again the Rose. And Jiri Kylian's ''Sinfonietta'' closed the program exultantly. Ormsby Wilkins and Mr. LaMarche conducted. After the performance, children in the audience were invited to meet Angelina and some of the dancers in the atrium adjoining the theater. American Ballet Theater continues through Sunday at City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Midtown. DANCE REVIEW"}