{"title": "Solitary Pursuit by Bach Gets a Full Performance", "body_text": "There is important music from the past that we do not know quite where to put. Schubert's F-minor Fantasy for one piano and two pianists is perhaps happiest when listened to by its performers in an otherwise empty room or, at most, with a friend or two on hand to turn the pages. On a raised stage in a darkened hall with an audience, this great music does not work. Bach on the keyboard -- and Daniel Barenboim played a lot of it at Carnegie Hall on Monday night -- asks similar questions about what the word performance once meant and what it means now. Seen from Bach's early-18th-century vantage, the 48 preludes and fugues of ''The Well-Tempered Clavier'' are a solitary pursuit: a textbook addressing the physical needs of polyphonic playing and, more important, a kind of correspondence course for the inquiring student, offering a university of spiritual contemplation. An almost-full Carnegie Hall, ready for an evening of ''The Well-Tempered Clavier, Book I,'' spoke for another point of view, telling us tacitly that Bach in the present-day concert hall works just fine. In their behalf, the composer does seem to have ordered these pieces for psychological effect: with long and profound minor-key fugues followed by fleet and upbeat preludes. Mr. Barenboim -- either cured of, or oblivious to, the back problems that caused him to cancel many recent events -- mediated between viewpoints. The stage was big, the lights were low, and from the modern piano was wrung every dramatic device the 19th century later offered. In contrast, the pianist used the score, turned his own pages and made just enough small errors to give the evening a homier, more spontaneous feeling. Bach also meant these pieces as an elaborate advertisement for a system of tuning in which he believed, a method not all that different from the one we use today. Music in the 1720's had gravitated toward major and minor keys. Old tuning had purer intervals and sounded fine in basic keys, but weird in distant ones. The well-tempered method favored by Bach dirtied pitch relationships to allow the easy hopping from key to key, a horizontal freedom that became fundamental to, for example, Wagner's music. The ''Well-Tempered Clavier'' pieces are in every key -- from the seven sharps of C-sharp major to the plain old white-key C major. You had to tune Bach's way to play them all. Arguing with Mr. Barenboim about tempo, tone and approach (and I could have on many occasions) was beside the point given his insistence that listeners hear Bach's counterpoint at work and that they experience a monumentality transcending any keyboard instrument. (We are not always sure which one Bach had in mind.) Book I, moreover, seems the more public, outgoing half of this huge work. Playing 24 preludes and fugues in one gulp was certainly not in the composer's mind, but the attention given here made the evening seem not so much a fiercely run marathon as a grand and leisurely walking tour of the mind and heart. MUSIC REVIEW"}