{"title": "An Indian Father Courage, Using and Losing Women", "body_text": "Sakharam Binder thinks he has the system by the tail. That system is the de facto enslavement of women in postcolonial India, despite the promises of democracy and modernity. Sakharam, a bookbinder, picks up other men's discarded women -- castoff wives who would otherwise be homeless, destitute or murdered with impunity -- and takes them in as domestic servants and sex partners. He rules his home like a tin-pot tyrant, yet each woman is told that she is free to leave whenever she likes. He will even give her a sari, 50 rupees and a ticket to wherever she wants to go. ''Everything good and proper, where Sakharam Binder is concerned,'' he says. ''He's no husband to forget common decency.'' What he doesn't anticipate are the moral and emotional complications of this arrangement, which prove heartbreakingly ruinous to everyone involved. Banned in India after its 1974 premiere, ''Sakharam Binder'' is the most famous and influential drama by Vijay Tendulkar, India's foremost living playwright. The wonderfully clear and superbly acted production by the Play Company of this excruciating yet absorbing work is the culmination of the monthlong Tendulkar Festival sponsored by the Indo-American Arts Council. (The festival has included readings, workshops, public discussions and film screenings.) Mr. Tendulkar, 76, has often been embroiled in controversies during his 40 years as a prominent playwright, screenwriter and essayist. Last year, effigies of him were burned in six cities after he spoke out against Narendra Modi, the Hindu chief minister of Gujarat state, where anti-Muslim riots killed more than 2,000 people in 2002. Despite his reputation as a fearless social critic, his plays are not polemical. They are based on merciless character observation and could be described as hypernaturalistic, though some employ nonrealistic conventions. ''Sakharam Binder,'' directed by Maria Mileaf, tells the story of Sakharam's seventh and eighth ''birds'' (as his envious friend Dawood calls Sakharam's women). Laxmi (Anna George) is shy, submissive and pious, whereas Champa (Sarita Choudhury), her successor, is brash, voluptuous and spoiled. Their very different reactions to Sakharam's lordly manner and modest circumstances are sharply and poignantly delineated by Ms. George and Ms. Choudhury. Ms. George projects a steely and oddly moving brittleness as she putters around Sakharam's cramped house, which has no modern amenities and only a single, thin rollup mat for sleeping. Ms. Choudhury radiates a proud, willful acuity that reads as desperate indignation as Champa shirks, malingers and turns to alcohol to blunt her disgust at Sakharam's sexual demands. No one comes off as wholly innocent here. Even the victims prove capable of selfishness and self-deception when their survival is on the line. The play's main conflict is set in motion when Laxmi returns after Sakharam sent her packing, and convinces Champa to let her stay. It's not the plot, however, but the depth and the subtlety of Bernard White's portrayal of Sakharam that injects variety, surprise and fascination into this almost three-hour play. Mr. White vividly captures the strange and complex pathology of Sakharam, who seems to want to please his ''birds'' even as he bullies them and who speaks like a freethinking crusader for women's rights one minute and like an philistine scornful of their devotion to him the next. Sakharam's tragedy turns out to hinge on his budding social consciousness, his arrested enlightenment. He can see -- almost -- an idea of equality and shared humanity that transcends individual appetite, but nothing in his life (including the women) ever encourages him to follow its logic. Like Brecht's Mother Courage, he exploits a corrupt system for personal advantage, then discovers that the price of playing the game is everything he hoped to protect. Unlike Brecht, though, Mr. Tendulkar never judges his protagonist but concentrates instead on painting him with unsettling compassion, perceptiveness and thoroughness. His play deserves to be much better known in the United States than it is. Performances through Nov. 14 at 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street. THEATER REVIEW"}