{"title": "Technology Comes to a Village, but Complexity Is Old", "body_text": "''Still, the Children Are Here,'' a muddled documentary portrait of a small, isolated village in northeast India, has one laudable quality that is missing from most films with an ethnographic focus. The residents of Sadolpara, a village inhabited by the Garos, rice farmers of Tibetan-Burmese origin, emerge as careworn people who have the same psychological complexity as people everywhere. Some men work harder than others, and people not pulling their weight are cause for complaint. Marriages are fraught with sexual tensions, and in one scene a group of older women lament their arranged marriages decades earlier. When one husband leaves on a regular three-day trip to the city, his wife speculates that he is having an affair. This warts-and-all perspective differs from documentaries that tend to be infatuated with their subjects, whom they portray as The Other. Either they idealize those under scrutiny as pure, hard-working variations of the noble savage blessed with a rich spiritual life, or they portray their subjects as endangered species in need of protection and preservation. ''Still, the Children Are Here'' does neither. As the film, directed by Dinaz Stafford, wanders around Sadolpara, it finds a society that lives much as its ancestors did for millennia. We watch rainmaking ceremonies and ancient agricultural rituals being re-enacted. But we also sense anxiety and political division as the outside world encroaches. The once self-sufficient Garos are no longer entirely self-sustaining. They raise their own rice to store and to eat, but they also market products, including coal and wood, for cash. Some rare strains of rice that have been cultivated for centuries are threatened with extinction by the economic benefit of high-yield strains. Rigorous crop rotation and the burning of fields (using rotting wood from fallen trees as fertilizer) have kept the soil rich for centuries. But because much of the wood is now harvested and sold rather than left to rot and enrich the land, yields are lower. Diseases, especially tuberculosis, are rampant. And as the Garos trade with the outside world, they are exposed to modern conveniences like electricity and running water. In one scene a committee from the village petitions the provincial government to provide them to the village. But the haphazard structure of the movie, which opens today at Film Forum, is frustrating. It is too light on the history and statistics that might complete the portrait, and too dense with agricultural detail. How connected to the outside world are the Garos? And how long have they been selling wood and coal? The film's personal approach is undermined by its choppy structure. The Garos' domestic and political dramas have little resonance as the film's attention flits arbitrarily from subject to subject. At the beginning of the film we learn that certain scenes were re-enacted by the villagers. But which ones are they, and why? ''Still, the Children Are Here'' ultimately feels like a sampler for the larger more cohesive work you wish it had been. 'Still, the Children Are Here'  Opens today in Manhattan. Directed by Dinaz Stafford; in Garo, with English subtitles; director of photography, Ned Johnston; edited by K.A. Chisolm; music by Nitin Sawhney; produced by Mira Nair; released by First Run/Icarus Films. At the Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, South Village. Running time: 85 minutes. This film is not rated. FILM REVIEW"}