{"title": "Mythmaker Confident In Her Memories", "body_text": "Even at 86, with five botched operations on one hip and a successful one on the other, her eyesight troubling her and her hearing no longer perfect, Muriel Spark is still doing what every writer likes to do. Having just published her 23rd novel, ''The Finishing School'' (Doubleday), she is working on another. True, she admits, she no longer writes quickly. For instance, she completed her 1961 bestseller, ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie,'' in just six weeks. Now she works for three-hour stretches on just three days a week. And a novel, including research, can take her up to a year. But her new one, she noted with quiet satisfaction, ''is going very well indeed.'' It has a title, she explained in a conversation in the hillside Tuscan rectory she has called home for the last 25 years. She will not reveal it, but the title is still the starting point for her writing process. ''It arrives as if by messenger,'' she said. It becomes the seed that grows in the culture of her memory until it takes the form of a new novel. This too occurred with ''The Finishing School,'' where a creative-writing teacher is consumed by jealousy of his star pupil, who at 17 seems destined for glory as a novelist. Ms. Spark has known jealousy -- mainly, she said, as a target of other writers' envy. But as with most of her work, this novel is also rich in humor and keen asides on the absurdity of human behavior. ''The Finishing School'' was well received this spring in Britain, where she is usually described as ''Scotland's greatest living writer.'' In the United States, when it appeared recently, most critics also praised ''Ms. Spark's nasty, cackling plot,'' as the novelist Thomas Mallon put it in The New York Times Book Review. Writing in The New York Times, though, Michiko Kakutani said the novel ''reads more like a parody of a Muriel Spark novel than the real thing.'' By all appearances, Dame Muriel -- she was named a Dame Commander of the British Empire in 1993 -- is not a writer who suffers. She writes by hand, ''and while I write, I invent, the ideas almost flowing through my fingers.'' After her story is typed up by her longtime companion, Penelope Jardine, she makes few corrections. Only once, with ''Territorial Rights,'' did she stop and start afresh. That was 25 years ago. Her self-confidence has a secure base in her long string of popular short novels, dating back to ''The Comforters'' in 1957 and including ''Memento Mori,'' ''The Girls of Slender Means,'' ''The Driver's Seat,'' ''The Abbess of Crewe,'' ''Loitering With Intent'' and ''Aiding and Abetting'' as well as ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie,'' which as a play was a West End and Broadway hit and as a movie won Maggie Smith the 1969 Academy Award for best actress. In reality, Dame Muriel has never lacked confidence. At 14, she was crowned ''Queen of Poetry'' at her high school in Edinburgh. Then at 18, ''in order to write about life as I intended to do,'' she noted in her autobiography, ''Curriculum Vitae,'' ''I felt I had first to live.'' And over the next 15 years, while writing poetry, she did just that -- an unhappy marriage in Southern Rhodesia followed by badly paid jobs in wartime and postwar London. Finally, by 30, she had a repository of memories ready. Her madeleine was Proust. ''It inspired me more than anything,'' she said. ''I wouldn't have wanted to write like Proust, but I could see what you could do with memory. I could see what you could do with incidents. It was after reading Proust that I found that I rather liked writing prose.'' Prose had another attraction: poets usually need jobs; she wanted to write full time. Having edited a review for London's Poetry Society and written speeches for a public relations firm, she won a short-story competition in 1951 and took a part-time job. Still living meagerly, Graham Greene helped by sending her $80 and some wine every month for two years. Then, when her first novel, ''The Comforters,'' was sold in the United States for $1,500, she was finally free. ''It was much nicer to be at home writing my own prose,'' she recalled. Her transformation into a novelist, though, included one other crucial passage: her conversion to Catholicism in 1954. Although her father, Bernard Camberg, was Jewish (Spark is her married name), she was raised a Protestant, eventually choosing Catholicism after studying ''Apologia pro Vita Sua'' by John Henry Cardinal Newman, himself a convert to Catholicism. But unlike Greene, another Catholic convert, Dame Muriel said she had never felt ''this anguish about choice between faith and guilt,'' and was ''very relaxed'' in her attitude toward church doctrine. ''But being a Catholic helped me to become a writer,'' she explained, ''because it settled my mind. I believe strongly in the Holy Spirit and in inspiration.'' ''The form that ideas take has to be something I have experienced,'' she said, sipping a glass of red wine. ''But the idea of writing a particular experience certainly comes from an outside source. I don't see what else it could be.'' Yet while an ''outside force'' may serve as her muse and help her invent her fiction, her own life keeps surfacing, most famously in ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie,'' which was inspired by a much-loved high school teacher, but also in ''The Girls of Slender Means,'' set in a London hostel for ''ladies from good families of modest means,'' much like the Helena Club, where she lived in the late 1940's. When the success of ''Miss Jean Brodie'' began distracting her from her memories, she fled first London, then New York, finally settling in Italy in 1969. ''I was determined to get out all these novels that had mounted up inside me over the years,'' she explained. ''I'd gone through years of poverty, not knowing what to do with all my experiences. I had it all bottled up. I was very anxious in my 40's to express everything that had happened in my 20's and 30's. I simply didn't want to be waylaid.'' ''Loitering With Intent,'' which also took her back to her London of the late 1940's, is, in her view, her most autobiographical novel. The book is narrated as a memory by a young woman who has just completed her first novel and will go on to become famous. In it, the author is clearly speaking for herself when she writes: ''The true novelist, one who understands the work as a continuous poem, is a mythmaker.'' Two decades later, in ''The Finishing School,'' there are echoes of ''Loitering With Intent'' in her exploration of the craft of fiction writing. In her new novel, she transfers her voice to the bumptious student writer. When he is asked if his characters take on a life of their own, he replies, ''No, they live the lives I give them.'' Or as Dame Muriel herself recently said of her characters, ''I'm quite sure that I am in charge.'' Now, however, in what might pass as a mea culpa, she has concluded there are enough novels about writing a novel. ''It's too easy when you're not very mobile to think only of your writing, that this is the pivot of all action -- and it isn't, of course,'' she said. ''There's a danger of too much writing about writing about writing. I don't want to do that anymore.'' But she did not seem concerned. ''I'll just have to think up another trade,'' she said with a smile."}