{"title": "Singing Of Love, No Room For Whimsy", "body_text": "Halfway through a set at Irving Plaza on Monday night -- Election Eve -- the feminist trio Le Tigre played an old favorite called ''What's Yr Take on Cassavetes.'' Indie-rock bands often give their love songs whimsical titles, only tangentially related to the lyrics. But Le Tigre is devoted to straightforward rabble-rousing, not sideways leaps. And so ''What's Yr Take on Cassavetes'' was exactly what it said it was: not a sly joke, but a foreshortened argument about the director John Cassavetes. JD Samson shouted, ''Misogynist!'' Kathleen Hanna and Johanna Fateman shouted back, ''Genius!'' And then they chanted the refrain: ''What's your take on Cassavetes? What's your take on Cassavetes?'' A song like that sums up what's appealing about Le Tigre and also what's perplexing. The group's pint-sized drum-machine beats and trebly guitar squalls (the band members often switch instruments) suggest some do-it-yourself variant of new wave, playful but incendiary. And yet the songs are often just as thin as the sounds, with not much room for ambiguity or surprise: you sometimes get the depressing feeling that these three are singing exactly what they mean. The band has within its ranks a marvelous ranter, Ms. Hanna, who finds ways to couple rage with joy, while uncoupling it from menace. (She perfected this style a decade ago with her wildly influential punk band Bikini Kill.) During the anti-Bush harangue ''Seconds,'' she screamed the lyrics (''You make me sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick sick!'') as if she were at a wild -- and single-minded -- party; no doubt she hoped that, 24 hours later, she would be. Le Tigre's new CD is ''This Island'' (Strummer/Universal), the group's major-label debut, and it's something of a disappointment. The trio seems to be bumping up against the limits of its barebones musical formula -- choppy guitar lines over punky dance beats -- and the cover of the Pointer Sisters' 1980's hit ''I'm So Excited'' joylessly hammers the song until it fits the Le Tigre template. The album's first single, ''New Kicks,'' is even more dispiriting: a few guitar chords and a kicky beat, plus samples of antiwar chants and speeches; it could almost be a parody of clunky, dreary agitprop. Still, it's hard not to be amused and encouraged by the idea of a band like Le Tigre recording for a label like Universal, especially since it meant the members had a chance to collaborate with the new-wave guru Ric Ocasek (from the Cars) on ''Tell You Now,'' a fierce but breezy un-love song. The album also finds a few ways to show off the group's most riveting member, Ms. Samson, an icon of nerdy cool who happens to be Le Tigre's most radical sex symbol. On Monday night, she took the microphone for ''Viz.'' ''It's about butch lesbian visibility,'' she explained. The song celebrates a raucous night out. (''They call it coolness, and we call it visibility/They call it way-too-rowdy, we call it finally free.'') But Ms. Samson's voice was cool and androidish, hinting at a hidden world of nightclub debauchery. And listeners could savor the thought that she wasn't singing everything she meant. ROCK REVIEW"}