{"title": "The Zombies Brought Him: George Romero Is Back", "body_text": "George A. Romero, grand master of the undead, was not pleased with the quality of fear showing on a pair of extras, costumed as security guards, in the face of an invading zombie army here last week. ''These guys aren't acting like there's a war going on,'' Mr. Romero moaned, after directing perhaps the 10th take of what should have been a two-take shot. ''Can we rehearse them, please?'' If anyone knows what film terror should look like, it is Mr. Romero. In 1968, he reinvented the horror genre with his ''Night of the Living Dead,'' a cult classic that made its way onto the prestigious National Film Registry of the Library of Congress. His subsequent career had its ups and downs. Of the dozen pictures he later directed, none matched the status of his first, and the last of them, ''Bruiser,'' went straight to video in the United States. Like one of his own unstoppable zombies, however, Mr. Romero, now 65, is back. He is in Toronto directing a fourth installment of his ''Living Dead'' series, called ''Land of the Dead. '' And with support from Universal Pictures, he is riding a wave partly of his own making. Horror films in general, and zombie flicks in particular, are in vogue at the moment. In the past year alone, four medium- to low-budget zombie movies -- Zack Snyder's remake of Mr. Romero's 1978 ''Dawn of the Dead'' for Universal, the zombie spoof ''Shaun of the Dead'' (Focus Features), ''28 Days Later'' (Fox Searchlight) and ''Resident Evil: Apocalypse'' (Sony Pictures) -- have taken in more than $165 million at the North American box office. In the last two weeks, Sarah Michelle Gellar's unheralded horror movie ''The Grudge'' has taken in $71 million for Columbia Pictures, while ''Saw'' (Lions Gate), another relatively inexpensive bloodfest, had more than $17 million in ticket sales last weekend. Sequels to both ''Saw'' and ''28 Days Later'' have already been announced, and at least two other zombie movies, including a Dutch-produced film featuring Nazi undead, are in the works. A tall, shaggy bear of a man with a beard, ponytail and oversize, square black glasses, Mr. Romero believes the current revival says more about Hollywood than the culture at large. ''If one horror film hits,'' he said in an interview, ''everyone says, 'Let's go make a horror film.' It's the genre that never dies.'' In addition, he said, he thinks the ''Resident Evil'' video games ''woke everyone up.'' But others see larger forces at work. John Leguizamo, who co-stars in ''Land of the Dead'' with Dennis Hopper, Simon Baker and Asia Argento, said he believed the renewed popularity of horror ''has to do with our times, when things are unsure, and there's so much violence in places like Iraq.'' Indeed, Mr. Romero -- who spoofed consumer culture in ''Dawn of the Dead'' and informed the original ''Night of the Living Dead'' with eerie echoes of the Vietnam War and 60's racial violence -- consciously redesigned his new film to accommodate post-9/11 fears about terrorism, after studios rejected his initial script as too downbeat in the immediate aftermath of the 2001 terrorist attacks. ''The idea of living with terrorism -- I've tried to make it more applicable to the concerns Americans are going through now,'' Mr. Romero said. The reworked script immediately attracted attention from 20th Century Fox. But negotiations dragged on for a year, until the producer Mark Canton had lunch with Mr. Romero's agent and asked about the director. ''After all these decades, he has figured out the final story in the zombie marathon,'' Mr. Canton recalls being told. ''I read the script, and said I wanted to do it. As soon as the news got out, Universal called me right away. They were on fire about it. It came together that fast.'' The deal, in fact, was sealed in one month, with Universal retaining distribution rights on the $15 million picture. In the new story, Mr. Romero said, ''the fat cats live'' in a high-security complex called Fiddler's Green, which the director is conjuring inside BCE Place, an indoor office and shopping mall here with a futuristic, vaulted ceiling that makes it look like a true cathedral of commerce. On the outside, zombie hordes roam almost unimpeded throughout the earth. ''People are aware of what's going on outside,'' Mr. Romero said, ''and they're willing to listen to a government entity calling Fiddler's Green a safe haven, but it's not really providing everything they need. So some of the protagonists have to go out into the real world to get things like food -- and deodorant.'' As Mr. Romero's first ''undead'' film in 20 years, ''Land of the Dead,'' which will most likely be released next summer, is already mobilizing a fan base that has been hungering for the director's special brand of bloodshed. Anticipation, said Tony Timpone, editor of the horror magazine Fangoria, is ''extremely high.'' ''All the other zombie films are just a warmup for Romero's zombie film,'' Mr. Timpone said. ''George is the godfather of the zombie movie.'' At 2 a.m., ''lunch time'' on the 12th of 33 consecutive night shoots, Mr. Romero's immediate concern over the lackluster security guards has been solved: he has decided to eliminate the shot, to cut instead to zombies breaking the windows of Fiddler's Green, and then cut back to an interior shot of civilians and security personnel fleeing from the rampaging undead. As for future prospects, Mr. Romero was reasonably upbeat. ''Will this be a calling card?'' he said. ''It might be.'' ''If this film opens big, the phone's going to be ringing off the hook -- not necessarily for the right stuff, though,'' said Mr. Romero, who says he has turned down his share of projects about ''guys with hockey masks and knives.'' ''But I might be able to sell some of my other ideas.''"}