{"title": "Another Lesson in Humiliation, Taught by British Nanny", "body_text": "As ''The Weakest Link'' and ''American Idol'' made clear, Americans love to be bossed around by prigs with accents. The latest televised exercise in British-American sadism comes tonight in the form of ''Nanny 911,'' Fox's latest reality program, on which infantile American families are abused by prim, nasty nannies from Britain -- and end up begging for more. On tonight's episode, Karen and Matt Rock, the wishy-washy parents of Dylan, 4, and Natalie, 2, preside dimwittedly over domestic anarchy. Deafening wails come from every corner of their miserable Southern California house. The children spend their days shrieking, punching and collapsing into bag-of-bones poses of passive resistance. When Karen's or Matt's attention strays from Dylan for even a second, he screams: ''I don't love you! I don't love you!'' Nanny Deb to the rescue. Cited by the head nanny, Lillian, for her ''determined and happy nature,'' Deb, who has been a nanny for 20 years, is assigned to cure the Rocks. (In the show's conceit, Lillian oversees a coven of nannies in what looks like an English cottage; it is not clear where in the world the cottage actually is.) Having seen a video of the unruly Rocks, Deb hears the call and jumps into action in a red woolen cape and cap -- awkward garments, especially in Southern California, though they must say ''nanny'' to someone. On the first day, Nanny -- the Rocks call her Nanny -- tells the family she will simply observe, and she does, albeit with a good deal of sighing and note-taking. Karen admits she is intimidated. Indeed, Nanny's glasses, which are heavily framed with a scary librarian chain, are daunting, though later she seems a little looser, less indomitable -- more American, even -- than her appearance at first suggests. When she begins to intervene, she calls the Rocks ''you guys,'' and uses child-rearing slang, like ''not O.K.'' Nanny's initial observations confirm what viewers have seen in the set-up: the Rocks are bad parents. Karen still sleeps with her 4-year-old; Matt tries to hide out at work as late as possible; and the children are virtually never disciplined. Nanny institutes four house maxims that come as a revelation to the Rocks: Respect one another; every action has a consequence; ''I want'' does not get; and hands are not for hitting. So far, so good. All the ''Nanny 911'' needs now are parables during which the magic of the rules can be demonstrated, and the show obligingly provides them. It is commendable that shows like this one, which might be compared with ''Queer Eye for the Straight Guy'' or ''What Not to Wear,'' are so tightly organized. They formally enact the lesson they explicitly mean to teach: structure is everything. Fox has tapped into an idea with potential here. The ''before'' images of screaming, squirming children are not just dramatic, they are aggravating on an animal level. You want the racket to stop. But if you like a story, you also want the quiet to be well won. (Ritalin is not dispensed on this show.) The fact that the formulaic lessons of the show are telegraphed early on does not pre-empt suspense over whether they will be applied and how, or who, will learn them first. Just as fans of ''The Apprentice'' like to synch up their business instincts with the revelations of the show, viewers here will want to match wits with the nannies on the subject of parenthood. So the Rocks learn to respect one another, more or less, and Dylan and Natalie get shut in their rooms when they shriek and whine and ignore all requests. Matt turns out to have a knack for discipline, and Karen at length backs off and lets her husband run his game. At last, she even moves back into the master bedroom, leaving Dylan to fend for himself, which he proudly does. Dylan, who seems irreparably crazy at the top of the hour, mellows out. By the show's end, everyone seems sane and quiet, even loving. Only then does noble, if lonesome, Nanny go on her way. 'Nanny 911'  Fox, tonight at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time. Paul Jackson and Bruce Toms, executive producers; Michael Shevloff and Gerry McKean, co-executive producers. Produced by Granada Entertainment. WITH: Lillian, Deb, Stella and Yvonne. TELEVISION REVIEW"}