{"title": "New Web sites make it possible for shoppers to compare retail prices at brick-and-mortar stores before deciding where to buy.", "body_text": "SHOPPING comparison sites let consumers check prices and products across tens of thousands of online retailers. But what if they want to see the prices at the local mall that day? A trio of new online companies -- Cairo.com, ShopLocal.com and StepUp.com -- are trying to fill that need. For example, Cairo.com, which introduced its Web site late last month, scans the Web sites of about 25 national merchants to cull sales data from the retailers' weekly circulars. Consumers enter their ZIP code and can search the database for particular items, or register to receive an e-mail message when the price of an item drops. ''A lot of people just need a good camera and need it today and want a good deal,'' said Andy Moss, Cairo.com's chief executive. ''This is for them.'' The goal of the offline comparison sites is to overcome the enormous limitation of most existing shopping-comparison services: that online shopping accounts for only about 7 percent of all purchases made by consumers. The idea of offering searches of offline stores -- from the big chains to local merchants -- has been tried before without much success or cooperation from stores. These new sites are hoping the timing is better this time as the interest in serving Internet users with more localized search results seems to be climbing. Both Google and Yahoo, for example, are starting to offer more localized services. The companies are also entering the market as consumers are relying more heavily on the Internet to guide them in offline purchases. Dieringer Research Group, a consulting firm in Milwaukee, surveyed 2,000 people this summer and found that for every dollar consumers spent online, they spent $1.70 offline after doing online research. Last year, the figure was $1.50. ''These sites are a good fit with where shoppers are right now,'' said Thomas E. Miller, an analyst with Dieringer. Indeed, Mr. Miller said the sites satisfy a long-standing desire among shoppers. Ten years ago, he designed a survey asking Internet users what they would like to see from the new medium. ''Apart from entertainment, the No. 1 thing people wanted to do was have an interactive Yellow Pages,'' he said. While these sites do not provide an exhaustive list of retailers like Yellow Pages Web sites, they can be more efficient in guiding consumers to the right product. Last week, for instance, a Cairo.com search for a digital camera in Midtown Manhattan returned a list of 58 products, including the Fuji FinePix A330 on sale for $150 at both Radio Shack and Best Buy. ShopLocal turned up a Concord camera at Office Max for $100 and StepUp's lowest price was $99 for a Sony Cyber-shot at Best Buy. But Carrie Johnson, an analyst with the online consultancy Forrester Research, said these new sites do not cover enough merchants to be useful to consumers. One problem is that these sites need Internet access to the retailers' systems, so that they can transmit information quickly to their users, and few retailers now allow that. ''The selection on these sites is limited to what they've scoured from circulars'' and from inventory lists of the few retailers that offer online access to the lists, Ms. Johnson said. ''So at the category level, you're comparing just a couple of stores, which isn't that valuable, frankly.'' Part of the problem, Ms. Johnson said, is that few retailers have systems in place to provide information on inventories at the store level, so these services cannot track prices of anything other than sale items. ''Every couple of years a company tries to make this work, and fails, and one of the main reasons is that there's not enough retailers involved to get customers interested,'' she said. The selection of merchants could grow quickly, though, thanks partly to an unlikely source -- newspapers. Earlier this year, Gannett, Knight Ridder and Tribune bought CrossMedia Services, a Chicago company that helps retailers put their sales circulars online. CrossMedia also has, since 1999, operated SalesHound.com, one of the earliest sites to allow consumers to compare sale items at offline stores. Under the new ownership, CrossMedia in August created ShopLocal, a site with features similar to SalesHound. Each of the chain's newspaper Web sites has begun featuring ShopLocal as a service for local readers to find bargains. With the additional exposure on sites like ChicagoTribune.com and LATimes.com, more merchants are interested in getting involved, said Dave Hamel, CrossMedia's chief marketing officer. Mr. Hamel said more than 70 national merchants already forward information on upcoming sales to the company, and ShopLocal attracts about 18,000 visitors daily. Soon, he said, advertising salespeople from local newspapers will begin forwarding similar sales information from their clients, giving more customers reason to visit. ''Chicago is ready to feed us 600 retailers a week,'' Mr. Hamel said. Retailers typically pay between 5 cents and 40 cents every time a consumer clicks to view details of an item for sale in their store. Other local shopping sites collect revenue in a similar manner. One of the reasons online search sites like Google and shopping-comparison sites like Shopping.com have won fans among investors recently is that marketers have quickly warmed to the idea of paying only when someone clicks on their advertisement. Offline retailers have been slower to embrace that model because, unlike e-tailers, they never know if the person who clicks on the ad ultimately buys a product. Mr. Hamel, of CrossMedia, said he was doing research using offline shoppers to persuade retailers that their online advertising dollars increase store sales. Retailers like the Bombay Company, of Fort Worth, will also create printable coupons for ShopLocal, with codes allowing stores to track the sale to the online promotion. According to Matt Corey, the Bombay Company's vice president of marketing and e-commerce, ShopLocal has proved useful in creating awareness of his company's new brand, Bombay Kids. Even if shoppers do not click on the company's brand among the search results, the name recognition helps. ''Any time you're building a new brand, you need every type of awareness campaign you can get,'' he said. Mr. Corey added that Bombay's brand image would not be cheapened by allowing its products to be compared primarily on price. ''Some retailers ask 'Why in the world would you want your products next to some other company's?''' Mr. Corey said. ''That's not a marketing problem. That's a merchandise confidence problem. Customers will find your product and they will compare them.'' E-Commerce Report"}