{"title": "Japan's Recovery Hinges on Oil Prices", "body_text": "Like a Japanese compact car, the nation's economy is built to go a long way on a little gas. And so, Japan should be one of the best-prepared countries in the world to deal with rising oil prices. But as oil prices linger around $50 a barrel, economists now say Japan may be among the hardest hit. The Japanese economy depends less on oil than almost any nation, requiring only about half as much oil to generate $1 worth of economic growth as the United States. But while the surge in oil prices has had relatively little impact so far on corporate profits or consumer spending, the increase is beginning to take a toll on the economy by contributing to a decline in Japanese exports, the main engine of the recovery that began last year. As a result, the pace of economic growth in Japan has slowed sharply from earlier this year raising concerns about the durability of the recovery. ''We are seeing the obvious impact of higher oil prices, which are pushing down the trade surplus,'' said Shuji Shirota, an economist at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in Tokyo. ''The rise is already affecting the Japanese economy.'' Mr. Shirota recently cut his forecast for growth in Japan's gross domestic for 2005 to 0.9 percent from an earlier estimate of 1.1 percent, mostly because of the damage he expects higher oil prices will do to exports. The oil prices have not yet shown up in overall growth figures for 2004. The situation highlights the extent to which Japan's recovery continues to rely on overseas markets and remains vulnerable to economic conditions abroad. Exports account for less than 15 percent of the economy. But consumer spending, which accounts for about 60 percent of the Japanese economy, has been flat or falling amid a steady decline in incomes, and many economists do not expect a rebound in incomes or consumption anytime soon. Japan's economy grew at an annual pace of 1.3 percent for the second quarter of this year after expanding at a robust 6.4 percent in the first quarter, largely because of strong growth in exports of everything from cars and computers to DVD players and digital cameras. But more recently, economists say, demand for many of those goods appears to be softening. Experts cite a variety of reasons, including some slowing in China, but at the top of their lists is the rise in oil prices. Japanese exports have fallen in three of the last four months, in seasonally adjusted terms. Figures released in late October showed that exports sank a seasonally adjusted 2.3 percent in September from August while the oil price increase pushed the value of imports up 2.5 percent. Over all, Japan's trade surplus sank a seasonally adjusted 21.8 percent in September from a month earlier, to 816.4 billion yen ($7.7 billion). After months of largely dismissing the threat of rising fuel prices, Japan's policy makers are now warning that they consider the increase a threat to the recovery. The economics minister, Heizo Takenaka, said recently that a prolonged rise in oil prices was now the ''biggest risk'' facing the Japanese economy. With few natural resources, Japan imports nearly all of its oil. But the country has also worked hard to reduce its oil consumption, especially after supply shocks in the 1970's raised worries about the country's near total reliance on foreign oil. Now, about one-third of Japan's electricity is generated by nuclear reactors, and the country hopes to raise that ratio to 40 percent by 2010. At the same time, the popularity of small fuel-efficient cars and a well-developed and widely used public transportation network mean that spending on gasoline accounts for only about 1.2 percent of the average Japanese consumer's budget, compared with about 3 percent for the average American, according to Mizuho Securities. So, even though prices at the pump have risen in Japan this year just as they have in the United States, the rise does not have as big an impact on Japanese spending habits. And because of the heavy concentration of high-technology companies, like Canon, Sharp and Sony, Japan's manufacturers depend less on oil than do those in its Asian neighbors, like South Korea, where shipbuilding and other heavy manufacturing make up a relatively large part of the economy. ''The dynamics of the Japanese recovery are still such that it begins with export growth,'' says Ryo Hino, an economist at J.P. Morgan Chase. Mr. Hino recently cut his forecast for growth in the Japanese economy in 2005 to 2.2 percent from 2.5 percent because of the rise in oil prices. Despite Japan's efficient use of oil, he said, the country will not be immune from the effect of rising prices. ''You're clearly seeing signs of softness in global demand growth, and Japan seems to be the one that's really slowing the most,'' he said."}