{"title": "New Wrinkle in Campaigning: Taking a Swim for the Vote", "body_text": "A Virginia man's method of campaigning for the presidency yesterday was, if anything, brash. He was arrested by early morning light on Governors Island after apparently swimming there through the waters of New York Harbor, the authorities said. He planted a flag of his own devising, explorer-style, on the island, which is already claimed by the State of New York. The man, David W. Nash, 41, of Ashland, Va., was wearing a scuba suit, the police said. A bag with wet clothes was nearby. The flag bore the words ''The Blue Tulip Party,'' on whose unique platform he had run for president in 2000. As police officers from the First Precinct and the New York Harbor Patrol arrested Mr. Nash, he yelled, ''I've been trying to get members since 1999,'' the authorities said. Mr. Nash was in police custody yesterday and was being examined at Bellevue Hospital Center, after being labeled, in police parlance, an ''emotionally disturbed person.'' No one observed Mr. Nash emerging from the cold waters off Governors Island, a former Civil War prison for Confederate officers, but other methods of reaching the island are very limited. The National Park Service operates a ferry, but it is not open to the public at this time of year, and identification is required of those who board. ''We have very tight security,'' said Brian Feeney, a spokesman for the park service. A woman who answered the telephone at Mr. Nash's Virginia home and identified herself as his mother said he ''has been swimming since he was a child.'' She said that her son had told her he was visiting New York City, but that she had not talked to him in about a week. Edwin Levine, a liaison to the United States Coast Guard from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, said that swimming conditions were ideal in the harbor yesterday. Mr. Nash was noticed, reported and arrested between 7 and 8 a.m. There was little current in the harbor at that time. Indeed, Mr. Levine said, at 6:57 a.m., there is slack tide, or no current at all. The shortest distance to Governors Island, from Pier 9B in Brooklyn, is just over a quarter of a mile; the distance from Battery Park in Manhattan is just over half a mile. Mr. Levine pointed out that many good swimmers had circumnavigated Manhattan. The water temperature in the harbor was 57 degrees Fahrenheit, but Mr. Nash was wearing a wet suit at the time of his arrest. ''He probably knew what he was doing,'' Mr. Levine said. ''Either that or it was a really, really, really, really good guess, because that's the best time to do it.''"}