{"title": "Bringing Out the Horror Of What He Knows Best", "body_text": "Koji Suzuki does not look like a rock star. He is a short, slim man, 47, with slightly graying hair that flops over his eyebrows. The other day, sipping hot tea in a French restaurant in the Flatiron district, he wore a mock turtleneck shirt and a dark seersucker jacket and looked like a diffident literature professor or a lonely tourist trying to blend into the crowd. But in Tokyo, where he lives with his wife and two daughters, Mr. Suzuki often generates rock-star level adulation when he makes public appearances or even when he ventures into the neighborhood near his apartment overlooking Tokyo Bay. ''I was out recently doing push-ups in the park,'' Mr. Suzuki said, through a translator, smiling, ''and I could hear these people talking, looking at me, saying, 'It's Koji Suzuki!''' This is because over the last decade Mr. Suzuki has written a series of horror novels and short stories that have earned him the title -- one that alternately annoys and flatters him -- of the Stephen King of Japan. He has sold more than 10 million copies of his books in his native country. But much more so than Carrie or Cujo or Christine, Mr. Suzuki's most frightening creation -- Sadako, a demonic, hermaphroditic girl at the center of his 1989 book ''The Ring'' and its sequels -- has pervaded Japanese popular culture, becoming a boogeyman used to scare children and, for adults, a metaphor for everything corrupt, cruel and frightening about modern society. Beginning with the 1998 film adaptation of ''The Ring,'' by the director Hideo Nakata -- which became the highest-earning horror film in Japanese history -- Mr. Suzuki has also become a virtual one-man scary-movie plot machine. He is credited as one of the creators of a new, scarier, psychological horror genre known as J-horror, with less splatter and a lot more dread. The 2002 American remake of ''The Ring,'' starring Naomi Watts, earned almost $130 million in theaters, and ''The Ring Two,'' also starring Ms. Watts, is scheduled for release next year. A short story from Mr. Suzuki's 1996 collection ''Dark Water'' -- which was just translated into English and which he was in New York last week promoting -- is also being made into a movie, starring Jennifer Connelly, to be released next year. And the rights to another story, ''Adrift,'' about a haunted boat, were recently bought by Dimension Films, a division of Miramax. There have been so many adaptations, in film, on television and in comic-book form, of Mr. Suzuki's writing that he sometimes loses track of it all. Lingering over his cup of tea, he explained that the American version of ''Ring Two,'' being produced by DreamWorks, is not a remake of the Japanese version but is basically a creation of its screenwriters, a notion that amuses Mr. Suzuki. ''It's a little like the virus idea of 'The Ring,' itself,'' he said. ''It just keeps getting replicated, and I have no control over it.'' Asked if he minded, he laughed and, in emphatic English, said no. After all, the stories have made Mr. Suzuki a wealthy man. He wrote ''The Ring'' while his wife supported the family working as a high school teacher and he took care of their daughters. In fact, he recently indulged his nautical obsessions by buying a sailing yacht, in addition to another boat he owns. His wife quit teaching long ago, and Mr. Suzuki can afford to travel around the world, sail, practice martial arts and ride motorcycles. (He once rode one from California to Florida.) More important to him, he said, it has given him the time to write more novels in Japan (no English translations yet) that have nothing to do with ghostly girls or deadly videotapes or postmodern creepiness. They are instead the kind of fiction he always wanted to write, after falling under the spell of Sartre, Thomas Mann and especially Camus's ''Stranger.'' In fact, in the mid-1990's, after his horror writing had made him into one of his country's most successful writers, he vowed publicly that he would never write horror again, and he concentrated instead on the straight-ahead fiction, much of which revolved around seafaring. ''I actually don't like all that supernatural stuff,'' he said, adding, ''I really dislike most horror writing.'' He said that from the beginning he hoped his frightening fiction would frighten not because it would tap into Japanese obsessions with the supernatural, but because it revolved around the more realistic and even scarier subjects of technology and scientific knowledge -- or more accurate, the limits of both those things. The ''Spiral,'' a sequel to ''The Ring,'' explained (some readers might say further complicating) many of the creepier aspects of the previous novel by venturing largely into science fiction -- with plot elements concerning DNA and smallpox. Mr. Suzuki said, in fact, that of all the concepts he has considered as a writer, he still finds the number pi one of the most terrifying. He has often thought about the consequences if a powerful enough computer were able to find a pattern in the numbers to the right of the decimal point, a discovery Carl Sagan imagined, with theological implications, in his novel ''Contact.'' Mr. Suzuki's ending would undoubtedly be less comforting. ''That's the sort of thing I find scary,'' he said. ''That's what gives me the chills.'' If there is any constant in his horror writing, he said, it is that -- like any novelist -- he has put the things he loves and knows best into his fiction. But paradoxically, those are the things that often become the most terrifying. As a father of two daughters, for example, he has also written extensively about children and good parenting, but Sadako, his lethal creation, becomes a mistreated little girl, not a traditional horror-film monster or blade-gloved slasher. And many of his books revolve around people who live in cities near the ocean, and the water becomes a source of their deepest fears. (In the prologue to the collection ''Dark Water,'' a character counsels: ''Any particularly intriguing thing you may come across on the beach is best left untouched -- because it begins to tell its tale to you, as soon as you pick it up.'') But Mr. Suzuki loves cities, has lived near the ocean his whole life and is passionate about sailing. He said he really could not explain how these transformations into horror happened, but he did add that he was recently caught in a typhoon on his yacht and was quite scared of the ocean for a few hours himself. To the delight of many of his fans, Mr. Suzuki recently decided to break his vow never to write horror again, and he is now at work on his first scary book in years, which will be set in California and will examine the unexplained disappearances of groups of people. ''As much as I didn't want to be constricted by one genre, I came to realize that by saying I wouldn't write horror again, I was constricting myself in that way, too,'' he said, revealing that the title is ''Edge City'' but adding firmly that he would reveal no more. Sitting across from him, Ioannis Mentzas, the editorial director of Vertical, a small Manhattan company that has published English translations of Mr. Suzuki and other Japanese writers, smiled at his author. ''Apparently, it's going to be all about matter and antimatter and what happens when the two come together,'' he said. ''But that's all he'll tell me now. I can't get anything more out of him.''"}