{"title": "Putting Presidents on Trial Can Hurt Your Reputation", "body_text": "It was supposed to be a happy event, the opening of a new school for autistic children, but the president of Costa Rica looked as if he were in physical pain on the dais. Rising to speak, President Abel Pacheco tried to argue that it was the school's humanitarian mission that represented the true spirit of Costa Rica, not the corruption scandals that have led to the arrest in recent days of two ex-presidents, both scions of important political families. ''Costa Rica needs major surgery,'' President Pacheco said sadly afterward, echoing the prevailing mood on the streets here. ''We are doing it. The country is sick, but it is not going to die.'' Charges that the two ex-presidents and several other high-ranking officials took bribes in return for steering government contracts might not merit a shrug in many Latin American countries. But here, in the self-styled Switzerland of Central America, a place founded by farmers with egalitarian ideals, a Jeffersonian democracy, an oasis of peace in a region plagued by coups, wars, corruption and dictatorships, it has provoked a crisis of national identity. Some are even asking whether their identity was always a sham, a fairy tale for schoolchildren. ''We might have lost our innocence in this case,'' said Antonio Barras, a political scientist at the National University of Costa Rica. ''What most people are saying is that they no longer believe the politicians.'' But that does not necessarily mean Costa Ricans have lost faith in their system of government. Indeed, many here see the recent disclosures as proof they have a functioning democracy, with a system of checks and balances, a fiercely independent judiciary and a free press. Until the recent disclosures, the country was probably best known to the outside world for its rain forests, the abolition of its military and former President \u00d3scar Arias, who won a Nobel Peace Prize in 1987 for his efforts to stop the Central American wars. And for its national mythology, which is based partly on historical fact. Despite its name (Costa Rica means rich coast), the country never had any mineral wealth, nor did it have a large Indian population that could be enslaved. So the Spaniards who settled here turned to agriculture, creating a population largely of independent yeoman farmers, the sort Thomas Jefferson idolized. Costa Rica's poverty and isolation from Spanish colonial centers led to a strong tradition of individualism and egalitarian thinking. The country held its first free elections in 1899, and democracy has flourished here with only two interruptions -- the short-lived dictatorship of Federico Tinoco in 1917 and a 44-day civil war in 1948, when Jos\u00e9 Figueres Ferrer led an armed uprising after a rigged election. The revolt finally curbed the power of a coffee-producer oligarchy that had been struggling for political power with Communists and other left-leaning liberals since the days of Mr. Tinoco's rule. After the war, the country produced the current Constitution, guaranteeing free elections, universal suffrage and the abolition of the military. Since then, Costa Rica has an impressive score: 13 presidential elections, no coups, no civil wars. But democracy did not keep the country from going the way of most of Latin America in the 1970's and 80's, when it formed state monopolies over things like power, water, telephones and insurance. It was the lucrative state contracts to administer those public entities that, in the 1990's, gave senior officials the ability to extract kickbacks and bribes from foreign companies, prosecutors say. Indeed, the country saw several small but embarrassing scandals during the 1990's, like the embezzlement of public funds meant for social programs, and polls showed that politicians were generally out of favor with voters, even before the recent allegations. Turnout was low in the 2002 election. ''The perception was that politicians were corrupt,'' said Luis Sol\u00eds, a political scientist at the University of Costa Rica. ''The big fish were just never caught.'' Then came the sordid disclosures of the past month. First, former President Miguel \u00c1ngel Rodr\u00edguez, a conservative economist elected in 1998 on a pledge to privatize government-owned sectors, was arrested on Oct. 15 on charges that he took a part of $2.4 million in kickbacks from the French telephone company Alcatel. The arrest was particularly embarrassing because Mr. Rodr\u00edguez was forced to resign as secretary general of the Organization of American States. Then, within a week, another ex-president, Rafael \u00c1ngel Calder\u00f3n Jr., who served from 1990 to 1994, was arrested and charged with taking a $500,000 payment to steer a government contract for medical equipment to a Finnish company. The payment was part of $9.2 million in kickbacks distributed to various officials in the social security system. The local media broke both stories, and the frenzy continued with front-page disclosures that a third former president, Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Figueres, who was the son of the revolutionary hero and served from 1994 to 1998, had earned $900,000 as a consultant to Alcatel in 1999, long after he was out of office. Though not strictly criminal, the payments have caused more grumbling about conflicts of interest. Politicians from all camps are worried about the fallout from the scandals. Newspaper columnists are speculating that Francisco Dall'Aneses, the country's chief prosecutor and virtually the only popular public servant, will run for president after he has finished putting the former presidents behind bars. Some legislators talk of a brewing ''moral revolution'' that they believe will sweep them from office. In the end, most here agree, from intellectuals to people in the street, that the current crisis is a test of the nation's democratic institutions, and therefore a test of the nation's claim to being unique in Central America. The proof will come in the courts. If Costa Rican prosecutors and judges can fairly try two ex-presidents and dozens of other officials on corruption charges and send the guilty to jail, there will be little doubt the country has crossed a new threshold in its history, one other countries in the region have yet to approach. President Pacheco, who has not been implicated in the scandals, insists that the arrests prove Costa Rica is and always has been a ''solid, functioning democracy'' where no one is above the law. On the streets, people are waiting to see if that is true. LETTER FROM THE AMERICAS"}