{"title": "Dutch Filmmaker, an Islam Critic, Is Killed", "body_text": "Theo van Gogh, a Dutch filmmaker and writer who had recently made a television film critical of Islam, was shot and stabbed to death on an Amsterdam street on Tuesday. The killing shocked the Netherlands, already apprehensive over large-scale Muslim immigration, which has provoked an angry public debate. Mr. van Gogh's film added to that debate after it was broadcast in September. Shortly after the killing, the police arrested a 26-year-old man of dual Dutch and Moroccan nationality, whom they refused to identify. It was not immediately clear if he had any connections to militant groups, but the police said he was not known to any Dutch law enforcement agency and that he had not been under surveillance. Before fleeing, the man left a note on the body of the victim, said Eric Vermeulen, a spokesman for the Amsterdam police. The police declined to describe the contents of the message. The Dutch news media reported that it contained passages from the Koran. Mr. van Gogh, 47, a distant relative of the 19th century painter Vincent van Gogh, had received death threats after the broadcast of the short TV film, ''Submission.'' He made the movie with Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a Somali-born refugee who fled an arranged marriage and ended up in the Netherlands, where she is now a member of the Dutch Parliament. Mr. van Gogh and Ms. Hirsi Ali, who wrote the script, have both criticized the conservative Muslim clergy for perpetuating views that are anti-women and anti-homosexual. Their 10-minute film presented the stories of four women who, while saying their prayers, describe to God the sexual and physical abuse they have suffered at the hands of the men in their lives. The actresses have Koranic verses dealing with women written on their bare skin, and some have traces of lashings painted on their bodies. Mr. van Gogh, a prolific filmmaker, columnist and writer who dealt with a range of subjects but always mocked hypocrisy, also published a book titled ''Allah Knows Better,'' a scathing critique of Islamic militants and clergy, whom he called woman haters. Ms. Hirsi Ali, who has lived under police protection for two years, said she and Mr. Van Gogh received death threats after the film was broadcast. ''Theo did not want any police protection,'' she said in a telephone interview. ''He often insisted on the need to preserve our freedom of speech. He said he would only report the threats to the police.'' Asked if she and Mr. van Gogh had discussed the death threats, she said: ''He told me, Ayaan, if they kill me, remember the rule of law has to be protected against extremists.'' The man suspected of killing Mr. van Gogh fired several shots at about 8:30 a.m., then crossed the street and stabbed him several times with a knife, a police spokesman said. Witnesses told the police that the assailant then stuck a note on his victim's chest with the knife. He then ran into a nearby park, which was quickly cordoned off by the police. As he emerged, he fired at the police. In a brief ensuing gunfight, both the suspect and a policeman were wounded, the police spokesman said. Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende called for calm and asked people to let investigators do their job before jumping to conclusions. ''Nothing is known about the motive,'' he said in written statement. Mr. Balkenende described the filmmaker as a man of ''outspoken opinions,'' and added that it would be deplorable for a difference of opinion to lead to murder. A memorial called by the mayor of Amsterdam, Job Cohen, was held Tuesday night on Dam Square, in the center of the city. The crowd was estimated at more than 20,000 people. ''We are all so sad and baffled that you can get killed for your opinion,'' Tilly Hermans, director of the Augustus Publishing, said in a telephone interview. ''Theo had strong opinions, but in our democracy we had become used to fighting for our opinion with our voices or our pens.'' She said people were worried about possible repercussions and the political mood in the country. In a recent survey, many Dutch said they feared the growing number of Muslims and the possibility that Islamic militants might be among them. Close to a million of the country's 16 million people are Muslim immigrants or their descendants. The center-right government has recently tightened immigration laws and pressed immigrants to try harder to integrate by taking language and citizenship classes. Immigrants often say it is hard to assimilate in a country where many people do not want them. Members of immigrant groups in Amsterdam representing Moroccan and Turkish associations condemned the killing and pleaded for dialogue. ''Escalation is in no one's best interest,'' a spokesman for a Moroccan group said. The killing evoked the slaying of the populist right-wing politician Pim Fortuyn, who, like Mr. van Gogh, talked openly about taboo subjects, including Islam and immigration. Mr. Fortuyn, who had gained a large following and wanted to become prime minister, was killed by an environmental activist in May 2002, just days before national elections. By coincidence, Mr. van Gogh had just completed a film about the life and ideas of Pim Fortuyn, which was to be released in December. On Tuesday, friends and associates of Mr. van Gogh debated on radio and television why he had not taken the death threats seriously. ''Either he underestimated the danger or he did not want to be scared by it -- I rather think the latter,'' said Nelleke Noordervliet, a writer who knew Mr. van Gogh well. Mr. van Gogh had many admirers and critics. ''Life will be a lot more boring without him,'' said Eveline van Dijck, a producer who worked with him."}