{"title": "Homeless Man Is Killed, and a Town Pours Out Prayers", "body_text": "From the ode to Skunk Man: He is wondering why you're crying He thanks you for your kindness He was young here once and loving life His troubles and his strife Came early and came later. The poet wrote the tribute in her head in the shower on the day last January when Jeffrey T. Thompson, 57 -- known around here as Skunk Man because of the white streak running through his curly black mane -- was killed. The poet, Stanette Marie Rose, a financial adviser who had known Mr. Thompson since she was a girl, was one of many in Maple Valley who said they were sickened by that winter killing. After it happened, the people here said prayers, painted watercolor portraits, held candlelight vigils and memorial services, and built him a makeshift grave. Their intense interest in the case, the police say, helped lead to an arrest last week. All for Maple Valley's lone homeless man. Mr. Thompson, a Vietnam veteran who grew up near here and played as a child along the Cedar River, where he later slept and died, was adopted by this town of 14,000 people in rural King County, 25 miles southeast of Seattle. The homeless are not often welcome in many cities. But here in Maple Valley, where there was only one homeless man, it was different. He was a nuisance, but he was their nuisance; they rarely called the police to report him and they tolerated his living in the streets here for almost 30 years. They fed him, gave him odd jobs, bought him clothes and tall cups of coffee and counted on him to tell them crazy stories and even lend them books from his vast collection. After living for decades in this town's hidden corners, behind its gas stations and under its old railroad bridges, Mr. Thompson was embraced as an official denizen of Maple Valley, a kind of townwide cause, a likeable, visible man who usually wore fatigues and who happened to not have a home. ''He was our Jeff,'' said Sue VanRuff, executive director of the Greater Maple Valley-Black Diamond Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Thompson lived for a time behind Ms. VanRuff's Chevron Station on the Maple Valley Highway. To the people of Maple Valley, he was a sometimes obnoxious (he was arrested at least once), heavy-drinking, lively and entertaining vagabond, who was very picky about his coffee (tall Americanos, with extra cream). He was a man with so many stories, mostly about his service in Vietnam, and so many nicknames: Skunk Man, Stripe, Spot, Cedar River Man or, simply, the Bum. He chose to live on the streets, said residents and his somewhat estranged brother, Merlin Thompson, who lives not far from Maple Valley. They surmised that his life began to unravel after he left Vietnam, where he was a mechanic and served two tours of duty. Last January, prosecutors say, Mr. Thompson was beaten and stomped to death. The case went unsolved for eight months, as detectives from the King County Sheriff's Office pursued the case, relying heavily on tips from residents who had watched out for Mr. Thompson, as well as DNA evidence. Some Maple Valley residents said they had wondered if the detectives would be aggressive about solving the killing of a homeless man. Last week, Shirin Galinkin, 27, and David Pulcino, 45, who the police say got into an argument with Mr. Thompson down at the river, were arrested and charged with second-degree murder. They are being held awaiting arraignment. Sgt. John Urquhart, a spokesman for the King County Sheriff's Office, said the town's involvement in the case was crucial. ''There was a tremendous amount of interest in the investigation and sympathy for Thompson,'' Sergeant Urquhart said. Jim Flynn, the deputy mayor of Maple Valley, who knew Mr. Thompson well, said: ''It's hard for people to understand why we care so much about him. But he was here for so long and we just miss him.'' Mr. Flynn was visiting a memorial to Mr. Thompson, a wooden cross that was driven into an embankment along the river by a 16-year-old resident, Jennifer Smith, who said she was close to the Skunk Man and organized a candlelight vigil there that drew 50 people after he died. With her grandmother, she raised a $200 reward for anyone who could help catch the killer. Residents' research also helped to determine that Mr. Thompson was indeed a veteran and was entitled to government benefits that would cover the costs of his interment and allow a service with full military honors, which drew 60 people. The white wooden cross was adorned with plastic flowers and a small stuffed animal skunk. At the liquor store on the Maple Valley Highway, the closest business to Mr. Thompson's slapdash home under an old railroad trestle, a sign now says, ''Jeff's Killers' Caught! Thank you, King County Detectives.'' Joan Holder and her daughter, Marie Kimball, who manage the store, often allowed Mr. Thompson to come inside and get warm. They also provided information in the case, when they said that a couple from out of town had used a nearby pay phone, prompting detectives to trace the calls, law enforcement officials said. ''The last six weeks of his life, we were his hangout,'' said Ms. Kimball, 60, fighting back tears. ''All of Maple Valley was his home. He used to summer at McDonald's and winter down here.'' The arrests have awakened new memories of Mr. Thompson, who would often be seen around the streets, asking for a ride or for work. People are telling stories, digging out their poems, their musings and their paintings. ''People responded on a very deep level to his soul,'' said Ms. Rose, who wrote the poem about Mr. Thompson after he died, which she titled ''Cedar River Man.'' ''That's kind of the magic of the whole thing.'' The poem ends this way: And now this boy is free He is splashing and he is dancing He is laughing and wondering Did you love me? I am the Cedar River Man. Maple Valley Journal"}