{"title": "Peterson Jury Is Asked to Put Aside Feelings for Defendant", "body_text": "The lead defense lawyer in the Scott Peterson murder trial, Mark Geragos, urged jurors on Tuesday to put aside any hatred for his client's boorish ways. He told them instead to ponder the still unexplained death of Mr. Peterson's wife, Laci, a killing for which he said there were no witnesses, no evidence of a fatal struggle, no murder weapon and no motive. In his rapid-fire closing argument, Mr. Geragos summarized the case much the way he had begun, conceding that Mr. Peterson, charged with killing his wife and her fetus, could clearly be viewed as a ''jerk'' and a ''liar.'' ''Do you all hate him?'' Mr. Geragos asked. ''If you hate him, then maybe what they're asking you to do is just convict him.'' But disdain is no basis for convicting a man of murder, he said. Throughout the morning session of his summation, Mr. Geragos offered a point-by-point response to the prosecution's emotional closing argument a day earlier, using evidence and testimony from the early phases of the trial to remind jurors that the police had received full cooperation from Mr. Peterson and yet failed to investigate a string of leads or pursue other potential suspects. ''If you presume this guy is guilty, you can put a sinister spin on anything,'' said Mr. Geragos, later reminding jurors, ''You must not be influenced by sentiment, conjecture or passion.'' The prosecution argued that Mr. Peterson killed his pregnant wife to escape the drudgery of married life and fatherhood, all in an effort to follow a fantasy to lead the life a wealthy jet-set bachelor, free to travel the world seeking adventure. But in his closing, Mr. Geragos sprinted through a series of other explanations for all of Mr. Peterson's contradictory statements and erratic behavior after his wife disappeared on or around Dec. 23, 2002. For example, Mr. Geragos replayed the period around the time of Ms. Peterson's disappearance. He pointed to little-discussed facts like confiscated records on Internet activity the morning Ms. Peterson may have disappeared, showing that someone had been looking at a Gap advertisement and printing French toast recipes. Mr. Geragos argued that those facts proved that Ms. Peterson was home and alive on Dec. 24, when Mr. Peterson left for a brief fishing trip. ''The one rational explanation was that she was alive when Scott Peterson left that morning,'' Mr. Geragos said. He said that meant, ''You have only one conclusion and that conclusion is that Scott Peterson is not guilty.'' Mr. Geragos, offering an animated presentation punctuated by visual aids, had some jurors shaking their heads in agreement as he discussed some of the 41 points the prosecutors cited as evidence in its case, which posited that Mr. Peterson killed his wife at home, used hand-made cement anchors to weigh her body down and then dumped it in San Francisco Bay. Mr. Geragos reminded jurors of court testimony indicating that Mr. Peterson was eager to have a child and that the couple had been trying for months. And he addressed Mr. Peterson's boating habits and affair with his mistress, Amber Frey, and the prosecution's theory that Mr. Peterson stood to inherit his wife's money. ''They called no less than four witnesses to suggest that there was a financial motive,'' Mr. Geragos said, adding that Mr. Peterson clearly stood to gain more if his wife remained alive. She was set to inherit nearly $1 million, but Mr. Peterson was not first in line to receive that money if she died. ''There was no motive for him to kill Laci and Conner whatsoever,'' Mr. Geragos said. ''In fact, on the contrary.'' The defense will finish closing arguments early on Wednesday, followed by a rebuttal by the prosecution. The jury will be sequestered during deliberations, which are to begin later this week."}