{"title": "Verizon and Nextel Agree to Drop Lawsuits", "body_text": "Verizon Wireless and Nextel Communications, two of the country's biggest cellphone operators, said yesterday that they planned to drop their lawsuits against each other. The move should clear the way for Nextel to receive final approval for a swap of spectrum that Verizon Wireless had opposed. Nextel will also drop its opposition to Verizon Wireless's using the phrase ''push to talk'' in marketing its walkie-talkie service. By dropping their lawsuits, the companies can now focus on the more pressing issue of how to compete with Cingular Wireless, the joint venture of BellSouth and SBC that became the industry leader last month when regulators approved its purchase of AT&T Wireless. ''The biggest things on their minds have to be how to capitalize on the opportunity and threat from the merger of Cingular and AT&T Wireless,'' said John Ryan, the president of RHK, a telecommunications consultancy in San Francisco. ''It's now a monster.'' In July, over Verizon Wireless's objections, the Federal Communications Commission decided that Nextel should give back part of its 800-megahertz spectrum because some Nextel calls over the spectrum were interfering with some public safety communications. In return, the F.C.C. said Nextel would receive 1.9-gigahertz spectrum and pay $4.8 billion to swap the appropriate licenses. Verizon Wireless argued that any spectrum Nextel acquired should be through an auction, and that the government's plan amounted to a private sale of public assets. Proceeds from any sale, the company said, should go to the Treasury or be set aside by Congress for public safety. Nextel could still face other legal challenges, though most analysts say they believe that the company has cleared its highest hurdle to resolving the issue. At the same time, Nextel dropped its claim that Verizon Wireless infringed on its trademark by using ''Push to Talk,'' ''PTT,'' and ''PUSH'' when promoting its walkie-talkie phone service. Nextel uses similar phrases to publicize its highly successful service, which allows cellphones to double as two-way radios. Shares in Verizon Communications, which owns 55 percent of Verizon Wireless, rose 2 cents, to $40. Nextel's shares jumped 81 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $26.90. TECHNOLOGY"}