{"title": "Insurgents Blow Up an Iraqi Oil Pipeline", "body_text": "Insurgents blew up a northern oil export pipeline on Tuesday, dealing a severe blow to the national economy, even as car bombs and gun battles across the country left at least 12 Iraqis dead, Iraqi officials said. The sabotage of the northern oil pipeline forced a shutdown of crude oil exports to a port in Turkey, Iraqi officials said. The pipeline pumps out 400,000 barrels a day of crude oil and is the frequent target of sabotage. Hours after the explosion, firefighters were still battling the pipeline blaze near the city of Kirkuk, where pipelines run from oil fields west to the country's largest refinery in Bayji and north to Turkey. An Iraqi oil official in Baghdad told The Associated Press that the amount of crude oil in storage at the port of Ceyhan in Turkey was down to four million barrels, half of the port's storage capacity. The attacks on oil pipelines near Kirkuk and around Basra in the south, where the oil fields are much more extensive, have sharply cut into Iraq's main economic hope. American and Iraqi officials are relying on steady oil exports to help revive the stagnant economy in a country where the unemployment rate hovers at 60 percent. The Arab news network Al Jazeera reported Tuesday night that it had received a new videotape in which the kidnappers of a British-Iraqi aid official, Margaret Hassan, threaten to turn her over to the group led by the Jordanian militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi within 48 hours if Britain does not withdraw its troops from Iraq. In the first of the bombings on Tuesday, insurgents drove a car bomb up to the Ministry of Education offices in northwestern Baghdad in the morning, killing at least six people and wounding dozens more, said Col. Adnan Abdul-Rahman, an Interior Ministry spokesman. The blast took place in the Adhamiya neighborhood a Sunni-dominated area generally hostile to the Americans. People at the scene said two ministry guards in the parking lot, a father and his son, died immediately in the blast. In the volatile northern city of Mosul, a car bomb aimed at a military convoy near the police academy killed one person and wounded at least seven security officers, hospital officials said. The target appeared to be Maj. Gen. Rashid Flayeh, the commander of a special security force who had arrived in the city just days ago to assist the local police. He was unhurt in the blast, police officials said. At 1 p.m., another car bomb exploded by a convoy of Iraqi National Guardsmen in Mosul, killing two civilians and wounding seven others, hospital officials said. Clashes between insurgents and Iraqi guardsmen in the city's Widha neighborhood left three civilians dead, the officials said. The latest attacks came about halfway through the Islamic fasting month of Ramadan. During the holiday, the number of attacks in Iraq per day has spiked by 30 percent, and suicide car bombs appear to be an increasingly common weapon, American military officials say. Since April, when a two-front uprising convulsed the country, American-led forces have been unable to dampen what appears to be a growing insurgency, much of it led by disenfranchised Sunni Muslims ousted from power with the toppling of Saddam Hussein. In recent weeks, American military officials have been gathering their troops for a planned invasion of the insurgent stronghold of Falluja, 35 miles west of the capital, in the hopes that crushing that sanctuary will break the backbone of the insurgency. Thousands of rebels are believed to have dug into positions in the city, awaiting the assault. Prime Minister Ayad Allawi has said he is ready to call for a sweeping offensive in order to bring Falluja into his fold before elections scheduled for January. But Iraq's president, Sheik Ghazi al-Yawar, a leader of one of the largest Sunni tribes in the country, said in an interview with a Kuwaiti newspaper on Monday that he absolutely opposed any military action. The break between the two strong-willed men suggests that there could be enormous political fallout in Iraq if an invasion led by the American marines goes forward. Marines are now engaged in some of the most intense urban combat in the country in the provincial capital of Ramadi, 30 miles west of Falluja. There, insurgents have been ambushing Marine convoys that race daily through the downtown area. On Monday, a freelance cameraman working for Reuters, Dhia Najim, was shot and killed while covering the fighting in the area. The American military said in a statement on Tuesday that Mr. Najim had been killed during a battle between American marines and insurgents. Military officials said in interviews that the cameraman had been killed by the marines as they took fire from the insurgents. One official said marines had inspected Mr. Najim's camera after the battle and found footage that showed insurgents attacking convoys. By Tuesday night, the marines had opened an investigation, the official said. ''We did kill him,'' he said. ''He was out with the bad guys. He was there with them, they attacked, and we fired back and hit him.'' Reuters reported that its global managing editor, David Schlesinger, was strongly urging the American military to conduct a proper investigation and was dissatisfied with the military's statement. ''We reject the clear implication in the Marines' statement that Dhia was part of an insurgent group,'' he said. Mr. Najim's death brought to 36 the number of journalists who have been killed in Iraq, at least eight by American fire, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists, based in New York. Nineteen have died from insurgent actions. Early Wednesday, Al Jazeera showed a short segment of a videotape of Ms. Hassan, the kidnapped aid worker, who was born in Dublin. The network said it was not broadcasting the complete tape because parts of it were too emotionally intense. Prime Minister Bertie Ahern of Ireland said in the Irish Parliament that he had read a text of the video and that it appeared ''distressing.'' In the part shown, an insurgent wearing a dark track suit and a white cloth around his head was speaking while he held a Kalashnikov rifle. The network reported that he had said the group would turn Ms. Hassan over to Mr. Zarqawi's group within 48 hours if Britain did not withdraw its troops. The Press Association, a British news agency, quoted Mr. Ahern as saying that as in two previous videos, the new tape showed Ms. Hassan pleading for her life. She faints, and then a bucketful of water is thrown over her head, and she gets up and begins crying. News agencies reported Tuesday that two Iraqi guards kidnapped from an office on Monday in the affluent Baghdad neighborhood of Mansour had been released. Still missing are an unidentified American, a Nepalese and two other Iraqi guards, said Col. Abdul-Rahman, the Interior Ministry spokesman. The two released Iraqi guards were from the Falluja area, The A.P. reported. All work for a Saudi Arabian food supply company. More than 160 foreigners have been kidnapped this year in Iraq, most by bandits seeking ransom. More than 30 have been killed, some in grisly videotaped beheadings posted on the Internet. Mr. Zarqawi's militant group posted such a video on Tuesday showing the decapitation of Shosei Koda, a 24-year-old Japanese backpacker whose body was discovered in Baghdad on Saturday. Mr. Koda's body was wrapped in an American flag, and the video showed insurgents shoving him down on that flag and slicing off his head. In a separate Internet statement, the group, Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, said the Japanese government had offered a ransom of ''millions of dollars'' but had refused to withdraw its 550 troops in Iraq, prompting the group to kill Mr. Koda. Also on Tuesday, a supervisor in the Iraqi electoral commission, Adel al-Lami, said voter registration lists had been distributed on Monday in parts of several cities, including Baghdad, Amara and Basra. Though Monday was the first day that Iraqis collecting their food rations could receive registration lists for verification, the distribution of such lists apparently did not take place at all 540 or so food centers around the country, Mr. Lami said. The commission still has until the end of November to complete its voter rolls."}