{"title": "Locked In and Loaded: Yanks Lack Flexibility", "body_text": "These are the facts: The Yankees blew a three-games-to-none lead in the American League Championship Series to the Boston Red Sox last month. Then the Red Sox won the World Series, forever changing the dynamic between the two rivals. But Brian Cashman, the Yankees' general manager, would be happy to point out a few other facts. ''We have a 101-win team, we had the best record in the American League, we won the A.L. East and we lost a seven-game set in the A.L.C.S.,'' Cashman said yesterday. ''This is a championship-caliber club as it is. Is a huge housecleaning necessary? No.'' It is also not possible. The Yankees have weaknesses, Cashman said, and they are in the early stages of addressing them. But they are locked into expensive contracts with so many players that moving the pieces will be hard. ''Normally we have a lot of money coming off that contributes to a lot of flexibility,'' Cashman said. ''That's not the case this winter. We have guys signed, and guys have no-trade clauses. Our flexibility isn't as great as it's been in the past.'' To get around that, the Yankees will probably use two of their best assets: the cash of the principal owner George Steinbrenner and Manager Joe Torre's cool hand in the clubhouse. Steinbrenner will spend to add stars, and Torre will try to bring them together. More than ever, every Yankees move creates a ripple within the Red Sox' front office, and vice versa. The teams had the two highest payrolls in baseball last season, with the Yankees at $180 million and the Red Sox at $130 million. The Yankees' payroll seems destined to go well beyond $200 million next season, especially if they sign center fielder Carlos Beltran and a starter or two from a group that includes Carl Pavano, Eric Milton and David Wells. The Red Sox already have $100 million committed for next season, factoring in raises for the players under contract. Some of the players not included in that group are four prominent free agents: pitchers Pedro Mart\u00ednez and Derek Lowe, catcher Jason Varitek and shortstop Orlando Cabrera. ''It's nice to have some credibility coming off a winning season, but we face tough decisions,'' Boston General Manager Theo Epstein said yesterday. ''It's going to be hard to have as much talent, one through 25, in '05 as we had in '04. But we're going to do what we can to have a winning team.'' When they traded Nomar Garciaparra in July, the Red Sox showed that they would not be swayed by sentiment. That could be worth remembering in the case of Mart\u00ednez, who filed for free agency yesterday and could wind up with the Yankees. Mart\u00ednez went 16-9 last season and was exceptional in the World Series. But his earned run average rose to 3.90, and he earned $17.5 million. The Red Sox plan to offer him a contract based on his expected future performance, not on his past brilliance. Epstein would not address Mart\u00ednez's situation, but he spoke generally about the team's philosophy. ''We do everything with the team concept in mind,'' he said. ''As great as our resources are, there's a limit. We're going to operate within our budget and continue the same approach we used to build the '03 team and the '04 team. I'd love for all these guys to be back, but it's not realistic, given our limits. ''We'll stay true to our approach. We combine aggressiveness and fiscal responsibility.'' Next Monday, Cashman and Epstein will be among the executives flying to Key Biscayne, Fla., for the general managers' meetings, which start on Tuesday. On Nov. 12, teams can begin negotiating with other teams' free agents; until then, teams can only speak generally, without talking about money. Last year at the general managers' meetings, Cashman put together the framework of a deal for Javier Vazquez, then of the Montreal Expos. Despite his late-season struggles, Vazquez remains in the Yankees' plans, Cashman said. But like many Yankees, Vazquez might be difficult to trade even if they were willing. He has three years left on a four-year, $45 million deal. Other enormous salaries will be even harder to shed. Kevin Brown, the starter nobody seems to want back, is owed $15 million for next year and has a no-trade clause. Jason Giambi, the first baseman whose season was ruined by a variety of physical problems, is owed $82 million for the next four years. He, too, must approve any deal. The Yankees may try to sign a defensive first baseman to back up Giambi, with the familiar free agents Tino Martinez and John Olerud available. The Red Sox had success finding bargains in the past, and they will most likely look for more. The Mart\u00ednez saga could be another battleground between the Red Sox and the Yankees, but it may be the more subtle moves that make a bigger difference. ''The way we can compete with the Yankees is by having no bad players, by having depth at every position and a good bench,'' Epstein said. ''We can't afford a huge allowance to any one player and have that turn into a mistake.'' BASEBALL"}