{"title": "I.R.S. Loses a Tax Shelter Ruling", "body_text": "A judge has ruled against the Internal Revenue Service in its effort to prove that it does not owe Coltec Inc. an $82 million refund in connection with what the agency contends is an abusive tax shelter. The ruling is the second setback in two months for the I.R.S. in its fight against what it regards as questionable tax shelters. Coltec is an industrial concern formerly involved in mining. Last month, a federal judge ruled that the agency owed the Black & Decker Corporation a tax refund of more than $57 million stemming from a transaction that the agency deemed to be abusive, or not valid for tax deductions. The I.R.S. can appeal both the Coltec and Black & Decker decisions. In an opinion dated last Friday, the judge, Susan G. Braden of the United States Court of Federal Claims in Washington, wrote that Coltec had not engaged in an abusive tax shelter but rather in a legitimate business activity when it set up an entity to handle asbestos-related claims. The transaction, known as a contingent liability deal, generated a large tax benefit for Coltec for the 1996 tax year, and in 2000 Coltec filed a refund claim for more than $82 million in federal income taxes that it paid for that year. The I.R.S., calling the transaction a sham with no purpose other than tax avoidance, rejected the claim, and Coltec sued in federal tax court. A trial was held last May. The chief counsel for the I.R.S., Donald Korb, said late yesterday, ''Although we are disappointed by the opinion issued in this case, the service stands by its position on the contingent liability shelter.'' Judge Braden wrote in her ruling that the constitutional separation of powers means that Congress, not the courts, should be used ''to determine how federal tax laws are used to promote economic welfare.'' ''Accordingly,'' her ruling said, ''the court has determined that where a taxpayer has satisfied all statutory requirements established by Congress, as Coltec did in this case, the use of the 'economic substance' doctrine to trump 'mere compliance with the code' would violate the separation of powers.''"}