{"title": "Mourning Would Rather Be Elsewhere", "body_text": "Alonzo Mourning knows he was not supposed to be back on the court so soon, certainly not in time for the Nets' season-opening game on Wednesday night. But Mourning worked harder than ever, dedicated himself to rehabilitation and came back less than 11 months after having a kidney transplant. But the day before he was to return on national television against the Miami Heat, the team he symbolized for seven seasons, it was clear that Mourning would rather be somewhere else. He wants to play. He lives to play. He spent countless hours doing the hard, lonely work to get into shape and even overruled his family to give himself another shot at an N.B.A. championship. But Mourning, 34, returned to a team that had been torn apart to trim its payroll, and he is unhappy. In that respect, Mourning sympathizes with point guard Jason Kidd, the Nets' captain. ''He played a significant role in the success of the organization the past three or four years,'' Mourning said of Kidd on Tuesday. ''And I think his presence changed the attitude of this organization and the position of this organization. So for management and ownership to make the decisions that they made with personnel, it's kind of disheartening, to tell you the truth, for a guy like Jason Kidd. I mean, hey, his efforts, to tell you the truth, were just pushed to the side. Now, I mean you've got an upset captain who, to tell you the truth, probably wants to be moved.'' The Nets let Kenyon Martin, Kerry Kittles, Rodney Rogers and Lucious Harris depart after three straight Atlantic Division titles. Kidd, who had off-season knee surgery, will start the season on the injured list and will most likely miss at least the first month of the season. ''That kind of makes me concerned about the future of this team and what direction we're going to go in, regardless of what type of efforts we put out on the court and the preparation,'' said Mourning, who signed a four-year deal with the Nets in 2003. ''And that's my main concern right there, because one of my main reasons for playing here was to play with Jason Kidd. Now you've got a guy that's upset and has mixed feelings about coming back to play because of the changes that were made. Obviously, I'm a veteran in this league and I've got a small window of opportunity to play this game. So I want to be in the best possible situation that's going to help benefit me at the same time.'' Mourning, whose steady progress was a pleasant surprise, is one of the Nets' few bright spots. He played in only 12 regular-season games the past two seasons, but he measures success not in points or rebounds, but in trying to top the record for survival after a kidney transplant, 39 years. ''I've said plenty of times before that I was upset with the changes that were made here because a year or so ago, when I made the decision to play here, I wasn't expecting these types of changes,'' Mourning said. ''With that said, I'm still under contract, and I will fulfill those contractual duties. So I come out here, I'm professional about all of this.'' Mourning can make no guarantees about what he can contribute after playing only one preseason game, in which he had 12 points, 5 rebounds and 2 blocks in 19 minutes last Thursday. He has rapidly accelerated his workouts and was one of the last players on the court again on Tuesday. ''I don't have a crystal ball,'' he said. ''I'm going to do what I can to try and get back to the old Alonzo Mourning form. I think I have to take baby steps through all this.'' He added: ''Can I contribute to this team? Yes, I think so. As long as I'm healthy and I'm out there on this floor, I feel I'm going to continue to get better. The only thing that will stop me is an injury or possibly rejection and the doctors tell me that I have to stop playing.'' PRO BASKETBALL"}