{"title": "Campaign by the Numbers", "body_text": "So what just happened? While there are a million different ways to look at the 2004 campaign, those of us at The Hotline thought it might be a good idea to follow the numbers. Billions of dollars were spent in this year's race, on advertising, polls, mailings and campaign stops. To put Campaign 2004 in the appropriate perspective, we tallied the figures and crunched the spending in the battleground states and beyond. Here's a portrait of politics as it is today -- or at least as it was yesterday. More states formed the battleground for this presidential race than in any election since 1992, with more than half (26) at one point identified as target states, defined by ad buys on local television stations. The money race was fueled by changes in the campaign financing law that allowed individuals to contribute as much as $2,000 per candidate, up from $1,000. And it helped make one sector of the media very rich -- local TV stations. According to TNSMI/CMAG, which tracks television ad spending, from March 3 to Oct. 28, about $575 million was spent on presidential TV ads. That's the equivalent of more than $2 million spent for each of the 270 electoral votes needed to win. While the increases in individual contributions were supposed to help President Bush, Senator John Kerry and his Democratic allies outspent the president and his Republican allies in each of the five big battleground states (Florida, Iowa, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin). These five states accounted for more than half of the money spent by both parties and their allies for TV ad time (about $380 million of the $575 million spent). Beginning in March, the big battleground television spending broke down this way: Florida, $2.6 million on each of its 27 electoral votes by Mr. Kerry and his allies; $1.7 million per electoral vote by Mr. Bush and the Republicans. In Ohio, Democrats spent nearly $3.4 million per electoral vote to try to win the state's 20 votes, compared with $1.8 million for the Republicans. In Pennsylvania, the spending for each of its 21 electoral votes again favored the Democrats, $2.2 million to $1.4 million. In Iowa, Democrats spent $1.6 million for each of 7 votes compared with the Republicans' $1.2 million. And in Wisconsin, Democrats spent just under $2 million versus the Republicans' $1.3 million for each of its 10 electoral votes. Aside from television stations, others benefited from the campaign money. After the consulting business, the biggest moneymaker is the United States Postal Service, which charges 11 cents for each piece of political direct mail. Consultants have calculated that at least 15 million pieces of direct mail were sent in each of the big five battleground states, for presidential-campaign postage revenue of more than $8 million. Polling operations were as outsized as many other parts of the campaign apparatus, with more polls in more states than in any previous election. Nearly 1 percent of registered voters in Florida and Ohio participated in a public opinion poll. In total, 50,819 people were surveyed in Florida in public polls released from March 3 until Election Day. In Ohio, those surveyed reached 37,871. And thanks to their status as both key primary states and key battleground states, more than 8 percent of registered voters in Iowa and New Hampshire participated in a poll from Jan. 1, 2003 until Election Day. But a true campaign still wouldn't be real without a few retail stops, and the battleground states found themselves deluged by the repeated visits of the candidates and their surrogates. For much of the year, some critical states shed their flyover-state obscurity. Since March, Mr. Bush visited six states more than 10 times: Pennsylvania (23), Ohio (20), Florida (19), Wisconsin (14), Iowa (13) and Michigan (11). During the same period, Mr. Kerry visited seven states more than 10 times: Ohio (29), Pennsylvania (24), Florida (23), Wisconsin (17), California (12), Iowa (11) and Missouri (10). Ohio became the most popular destination for the presidential running mates by August, with Vice President Dick Cheney visiting 13 times and Senator John Edwards dropping by 17 times. Laura Bush also became smitten with the Buckeye State, stumping there 12 times during that time frame. Not surprisingly, Teresa Heinz Kerry went most often to her home state, Pennsylvania. Only one state has been neglected by both presidential candidates: Vermont. In total, Mr. Bush stepped foot in 48 states between his inauguration and Election Day, with Rhode Island being the only other state he has yet to visit. Mr. Kerry visited 46 states, also skipping Hawaii, Montana and Nebraska. Other notable statistics include the number of times certain phrases were mentioned. In the first seven months of the year, ''Swift boat veterans'' surfaced 136 times in the LexisNexis database, which catalogs daily newspaper and magazine articles as well as television news transcripts. But in August, the database listed 2,814 references for the term, an average of nearly 100 media references a day that month. Races for the House and Senate did not suffer for a lack of statistical anomalies this year as well. Bill Jones, the Republican Senate nominee in California, is the first major party candidate in nearly 30 years for that seat not to run a single TV ad. About 15 percent of the House of Representatives ran unopposed this year: 63 House members faced no major party opposition, and three Republican nominees in Texas and Georgia did not face official major party opposition. Of the other 369 House races, 45 were rematches. Three candidates (Cynthia McKinney, Democrat of Georgia; Dan Lungren, Republican of California, and Bob Inglis, Republican of South Carolina) were former members making a comeback for their old job (and old seniority). In the Senate, which is largely white and largely male, two races -- in Florida and in Illinois -- featured candidates on both sides who are not white men. In one of the hardest-fought Senate races, it appeared that Tom Daschle of South Dakota set a record for the most TV ads broadcast for a statewide race in the nation's history. He began his TV ad war in July 2003 and essentially never went off the air. Within these deeply divided states, there could be as many as a dozen Democratic senators representing states carried by Mr. Bush this year by five percentage points or more, while there is just one Republican senator from a state won by Mr. Kerry by five points or more. The re-redistricting of Texas Congressional districts moved the state from a Democrat-controlled delegation to a Republican-controlled delegation (a distinction that matters only in Electoral College ties and challenges). From high voter registration figures, to extraordinary spending, to marathon campaign fly-arounds, interest in this year's election has certainly seemed intense. The news media also bought into the enthusiasm, with many outlets significantly expanding their coverage. C-Span recorded 4,050 calls into its morning ''Washington Journal'' program from Labor Day until last Friday. It devoted more than 1,000 hours to campaign coverage, including 101 debates between candidates for Senate, House and governor. The cable network's first televised Democratic presidential primary event was a January 2003 fund-raising dinner featuring Dick Gephardt, John Kerry and Howard Dean. The three major newsweeklies (Time, Newsweek and U.S. News & World Report) didn't disappoint, devoting 36 covers since Jan. 1, 2003, to a presidential candidate. Mr. Kerry was pictured, at least partly, on 19 of those 36 covers. Mr. Bush was pictured, at least partially, on 20 of those 36 covers. Mr. Dean was pictured, at least partly, on 7 of those 36 covers, six of which were before Feb. 1 of this year. Any index of the season would not be complete without the contributions of the late night comedians. While trying to score the number of jokes about both major candidates, we leave you with a joke from Jay Leno on Dec. 8, 2002, a day that was frigid on the East Coast: ''In fact, in Massachusetts, the winds were so strong yesterday that John Kerry's hair actually moved.'' Mr. Leno, though, had to explain to his audience: ''You see, he's running for president. I wanted to get the first joke in.'' Now that Campaign 2004 is out of the way, don't think a few presidential wannabes haven't already noticed that there are 1,461 days until Election Day 2008. Howard Dean and Hillary Clinton campaigned for or raised money for more than 30 House, Senate or governor candidates. Wesley Clark campaigned for at least 20 House or Senate candidates. Rudy Giuliani stumped for nearly a dozen candidates around the country. John McCain's stump total was close to 20. Gov. George Pataki of New York distinguished himself in this category by stumping for more gubernatorial candidates than any other future presidential candidate in the country. Op-Ed Contributor Chuck Todd is editor in chief of The Hotline, a daily political journal. Research assistance for this was provided by Christa Ekker, Aoife McCarthy, Emily Goodin, Mike Memoli, Eric Pfeiffer, Molly Norton and Quinn McCord."}