{"title": "Arts, Briefly", "body_text": "Focus on France Paris at the turn of the 20th century, with the glamorous, decadent spirit of Montmarte at its vivid heart, will be the focus of attention when the National Gallery of Art in Washington opens a major exhibition on March 20. Running through June 12 before traveling to the Art Institute of Chicago from July 16 through Oct. 10, the show is ''Toulouse-Lautrec and Montmarte,'' consisting of more than 250 works, mostly by Toulouse-Lautrec (1864-1901), including the one at right. But the varied display will also include works by artists like Degas, Manet, Bonnard, van Gogh and Picasso. The exhibition is part of a celebration of French art at the National Gallery in 2005 and 2006. Celebrating Loews: Picture This Clark Gable and Vivien Leigh at the premiere of ''Gone With the Wind.'' Marilyn Monroe, below, at ''Some Like It Hot.'' Marlon Brando at ''Guys and Dolls.'' Archival film of stars at premieres will be part of ''From Penny Arcade to Megaplex,'' an exhibition opening next Wednesday at the American Museum of the Moving Image in Queens and celebrating the 100th anniversary of Loews, which bills itself as the oldest theater circuit in North America. Continuing through January, this history will include not only film but also more than 75 historic photographs and architectural fragments from bygone film palaces like Loew's Capitol Theater, as well as the smart uniforms worn by doormen and ushers and promotional items like the Shirley Temple paper doll issued for the 1935 film ''Curly Top.'' Footnotes The creators and stars of the popular musical ''Our Sinatra'' are reuniting for another tribute, this time to Fred Astaire. Beginning Nov. 30, Eric Comstock, Hilary Kole and Christopher Gines, in collaboration with Michael Bourne, as co-creator and director, will present ''Singing Astaire: A Fred Astaire Songbook.'' The limited engagement, through Jan. 9 at Birdland, will feature songs by the likes of Cole Porter, Irving Berlin, the Gershwins, Jerome Kern and Harold Arlen that Astaire sang (and sometimes danced to) in films like ''Puttin' on the Ritz,'' ''A Fine Romance,'' ''Top Hat, White Tie and Tails'' and ''Funny Face.'' His appearances in more than 70 films run from a bit part in ''Me and My Brother'' in 1969 through ''Annie Hall,'' ''The Deer Hunter,'' ''Heaven's Gate,'' ''Pulp Fiction,'' ''Mouse Hunt'' and ''Catch Me if You Can,'' among others. He's Christopher Walken, and at 7 p.m. next Wednesday, he will be saluted by the Film Society of Lincoln Center at the Walter Reade Theater. Among the scheduled guest speakers are Meryl Streep, Paul Schrader, Julian Schnabel and John Turturro. Correction:  November 4, 2004, Thursday  A report in the ''Arts, Briefly'' column yesterday about an exhibition planned for the National Gallery in Washington next year misspelled the name of the Paris district that is the focus of the show. It is Montmartre, not Montmarte."}