{"title": "Jaguars' Leftwich Has a Left Knee Injury", "body_text": "Jacksonville quarterback Byron Leftwich, who once played a college game in such pain from a leg injury that his teammates had to carry him to the line of scrimmage after a play, may not have to miss a start after injuring his left knee during the Jaguars' 20-6 loss to the Houston Texans on Sunday. Coach Jack Del Rio said the Jaguars' bye week might provide Leftwich with enough rest, The Associated Press reported last night. ''We'll re-evaluate Monday and have a better sense of when Byron will be able to join us,'' he said. ''We have not ruled out the Detroit Lions here at home.'' The Jaguars said that Leftwich was examined yesterday by Dr. James Andrews in Birmingham, Ala., and that he would not need surgery. The diagnosis was a sprained lateral collateral ligament and rest was prescribed, Del Rio said. The Jaguars resume play Nov. 14 against Detroit. If Leftwich cannot start, the backup David Garrard will replace him. Garrard, a fourth-round pick in 2002, has played in just one game this season, coming in for two plays after Leftwich left the game just before halftime. Garrard completed both of his pass attempts, for 28 yards. In three seasons, he has played in seven games and completed 34 of 60 passes. Leftwich was injured about 90 seconds before halftime when he was hit by two Texans, but he put himself back into the game less than a minute later, without consulting with coaches, Coach Jack Del Rio said Monday. Leftwich finished the game, going 25 of 40 for 227 yards with 2 interceptions. Leftwich experienced swelling in the knee, and on Monday, he had a magnetic resonance imaging test in Jacksonville. He then went to Alabama to see Andrews, a renowned orthopedic surgeon. Leftwich's superb play has helped the Jaguars to a surprising 5-3 start and first place in the American Football Conference South. Leftwich, in his second season out of Marshall, broke his leg during a game in 2002. After completing a long pass, he was carried down the field by his linemen. FOOTBALL"}