{"title": "After Some Pioneering Steps, Women Runners Took Off", "body_text": "Nina Kuscsik spent the night before the first New York City Marathon, in 1970, making sandwiches and victory wreaths. The next morning, as the only female entrant, she ran 15 miles and dropped out because of a nagging illness. ''Had I known that it was going to be such a growing event, I would have gone back and finished,'' she said recently. Kuscsik's presence in a race confined to friends in Central Park did not have the dramatic impact of Kathrine Switzer's nearly having her number torn off by a race official in the 1967 Boston Marathon. But Kuscsik lit the fuse of the women's running explosion in New York. A third of the 36,000 runners in Sunday's 35th edition are women -- a number skewed downward by the number of international entrants, the race director Allan Steinfeld said. Between 1979 and 1999, the percentage of female finishers in the race ticked up between 1 and 3 percent each year with a few plateaus. It reached a high of 34 percent in 2003 with 11,715 women. Steinfeld said he did not expect the expanding presence of women to hit the proverbial wall anytime soon. ''It was like the Dutch boy holding the finger in the dike,'' said Kathleen Gerson, a sociology professor at New York University. ''It was bound to happen. This was a force that was bound to overwhelm whatever obstacles were in its way.'' New York City seemed ripe to push the progress of women in sports. Just as Title IX, the 1972 gender-rights legislation, began to level the playing field for women athletes around the country, one of the marathon's co-founders, Fred Lebow, along with Kuscsik and Switzer, initiated an all-women's race called the Mini. New York was also at the crest of the fitness wave. Aerobics dance classes developed by a runner named Jackie Sorenson became popular in Manhattan, and the influx of women in the gym began to spill over into jogging and racing, Kuscsik said. The changes afoot did not quell the activist in Kuscsik, however. Before the 1972 New York City Marathon, Kuscsik and the other female competitors felt patronized and segregated because they were given a 10-minute head start. They staged a sit-down strike before the race, circulating a petition that was signed by every male participant, and after that the marathon eliminated the separate starts. On Sunday, the elite women will be given a 35-minute jump to ensure that they have the stage to themselves. The marathon started to become a populist celebration when the course spread through all five boroughs in 1976, and it attracted more and more rank-and-file female racers. Increased television coverage provided an additional boost. During the reign of Grete Waitz, who won the race nine times between 1978 and 1989, the number of female finishers jumped from 184 (5 percent) to 4,688 (19 percent). Then a forgotten demographic emerged. After an adulthood spent pushing their daughters, the mothers of the Title IX generation took up running, too, Switzer said. Many set their sights on New York. The average female participant in 2003, according to the New York Road Runners, was 37 years old, had a college degree, worked as a teacher, was single and finished the race in 4 hours 53 minutes. ''You feel heroic,'' Switzer said. ''It's the biggest lure of the marathon. Daily living doesn't necessarily give one the sense of the heroic. That's what New York does.'' Sylvie Darmon, a 49-year-old pediatrician from Nice, France, chose New York for her first marathon over an array of events in Europe. ''Among all the marathons, New York is the mythic one,'' she said. ''If you do only one, it's the one you want to do.'' Darmon might not have heard of Switzer, but every woman in a singlet on Sunday can thank her on some level. Switzer's collision with history in the '67 Boston Marathon inspired more women to sign up, and the marathon responded by lowering its time standards. That forced women to improve, Switzer said, and motivated more of them to run to meet the challenge. Switzer's pioneering steps also made an imprint on the New York City Marathon and Lebow. ''My incident in the Boston Marathon certainly inspired Fred to bring women into his race,'' she said. ''He saw them as a fabulous publicity vehicle. He knew he could get in the newspaper. We women were delighted.'' Steinfeld, the current race director, said an interest in social justice also motivated Lebow. Kuscsik confessed that she was not thinking about the big picture before the first New York City Marathon, but she thinks about it now. Kuscsik, who retired from running after more than 80 marathons, including victories in Boston and New York, plans to be in New York on Sunday to cheer. ''I definitely accelerated something,'' she said. MARATHON"}