{"title": "Rutgers Prefers To Look Ahead", "body_text": "The Big East Conference said Tuesday that its officials made a bad call that cost Rutgers one last chance to beat West Virginia on Saturday. Rutgers Coach Greg Schiano had already moved on. The Scarlet Knights were preparing for a game Saturday at 24th-ranked Boston College. His frustration bubbled to the surface at a news conference Saturday, after a tough 35-30 loss to West Virginia at Rutgers Stadium. West Virginia was ranked 15th entering the game. ''This could have been a big turnaround game for us,'' Bob Mulcahy, the Rutgers athletic director, said in an interview Tuesday. ''We came back in that game. We feel for these kids.'' Schiano questioned a call that he thought should have been made on an onsides kick by Rutgers with 1 minute 22 seconds remaining, after the Scarlet Knights' second touchdown in four minutes. After a fake, the kick bounced out of bounds, and West Virginia gained possession. But Schiano said the Mountaineers had ventured into the neutral zone. A replay showed that three West Virginia players, not just one or two, were offside. Had there been a call, Rutgers would have been able to kick again. Schiano was so upset after the game that he made a vague suggestion that some people in the ''great state of New Jersey'' were still trying to tear down his program. Asked Tuesday what that meant, Schiano said: ''I'm not going to get into it. But I meant it in all sincerity. When I said 'the great state of New Jersey,' I mean it is great, and it deserves a championship program. And I'm going to give it all I can to get one.'' Rutgers (4-4) must win two of its last three games to finish with a winning record and become eligible for a bowl game for just the second time. Schiano, 38, in his fourth season at Rutgers, has much larger aspirations for the Scarlet Knights, although a bowl would be regarded as a monumental accomplishment. ''I really think we're building a program, and we still have a chance to go 7-4, not just 6-5 or 5-6,'' he said as he headed back to his office after his weekly news conference. Then, referring to a winning season, he said, ''If it didn't occur, I wouldn't think it's the end of the world.'' A report Saturday in The Record of Hackensack quoted several of the state's top high school prospects saying that Rutgers had lost its recruiting edge in New Jersey. A week after opening this season by upsetting Michigan State, Rutgers lost to New Hampshire, a Division I-AA program. Those prospects said they began looking elsewhere. In the week leading to the West Virginia game, Mulcahy had been a guest on the student radio station and argued with a caller who criticized Schiano. Mulcahy, who said reports of the exchange were ''totally taken out of context,'' said he told the caller he was not qualified to say that Schiano had been outcoached. Mulcahy also said on the radio show that students who booed the team should be more supportive. ''These are college kids,'' Mulcahy said Tuesday. ''They've got to give them a chance.'' The defiance that Schiano and Mulcahy showed apparently never drifted to the team. Schiano told his team after the game that he was proud of the way they played. ''It was very positive,'' quarterback Ryan Hart said when asked to characterize Schiano's postgame comments. ''Just move it along.'' The next opponent looks just as imposing. Rutgers has not beaten Boston College since 1991. ''I'm sure a bowl game is a goal for every program, but we talk about the process,'' defensive back Derrick Roberson said. ''You can't go straight to a bowl. That's why we're focusing on just this week, and Boston College.'' But recruiting is an issue again. The Eagles' roster includes a dozen players from New Jersey. Schiano said B.C. had strong ties to the state's Catholic high schools. ''There's a natural connection,'' he said. But at least Rutgers has a chance for the second straight season to finish over .500, Schiano said. Last year's team was 4-4 before it lost three of its last four games. ''People need to remember that in November, for years, this program didn't have a chance to finish with a winning record,'' Schiano said. ''It's a process. We've gone from lousy to competitive. Let's see where that process continues.'' FOOTBALL"}