{"title": "S.E.C. Wants A Monitor To Examine A.I.G.'s Books", "body_text": "The Securities and Exchange Commission is pushing for an independent monitor to scrutinize the books of the American International Group as the company seeks to settle an investigation into the sale of a product that helped a financial company manipulate its earnings, according to people briefed on the negotiations. A.I.G., which said last week that it hoped to reach a ''prompt settlement'' with regulators and prosecutors in the matter, was actually close to an agreement early last month but balked at the idea of a monitor, and the discussions broke down. Negotiations have been renewed, but their outcome is unclear. While installing an independent monitor at A.I.G. would not be unprecedented, it would be unusual, said Lewis D. Lowenfels, an authority in securities law at Tolins & Lowenfels in New York. ''Typically when you settle these matters you want an end to it,'' he said. ''But with a monitor in there, it is open to further investigation, findings of possible violations and you really can't control where it may lead.'' According to the people briefed on the talks, the S.E.C. wanted a monitor with a fairly limited mandate: examining A.I.G.'s books to see whether other questionable, income-smoothing contracts had been sold and, if so, to whom. Regulators and prosecutors' interest in the financial contracts written by A.I.G. has heated up in recent weeks, after the lawsuit filed by Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, against Marsh Inc., the world's largest insurance broker. On Oct. 21, A.I.G. disclosed that a grand jury in Indiana was investigating an insurance policy it sold to Brightpoint Inc., a cellphone maker, that helped the company conceal $11.9 million in losses in 1998. But insurance products, which can be used to smooth out companies' earnings hiccups, have drawn securities regulators' attention for at least the last two years. The S.E.C. brought an enforcement action against the PNC Financial Services Group in 2002 and sued Brightpoint last year for buying contracts from A.I.G. that it said misled investors about financial results at both companies. Each company, while neither admitting nor denying any wrongdoing, restated its results to correct the accounting treatment. A.I.G. paid $10 million to settle the Brightpoint matter with the S.E.C.; it, too, neither admitted nor denied any wrongdoing. But in announcing the settlement in September 2003, the regulators said A.I.G. ''played an indispensable part'' in the fraud at Brightpoint by selling it a ''new 'insurance' product that A.I.G. had developed and marketed for the specific purpose of helping issuers to report false financial information to the public.'' The contract, regulators said, was designed to look like insurance, enabling A.I.G.'s clients to receive beneficial accounting treatment. Such policies are broadly known as finite insurance or financial reinsurance. In fact, however, the contract was actually a loan that involved no risk to A.I.G. According to regulators, the contract specified that Brightpoint deposit money with A.I.G. in the form of monthly premiums, which A.I.G. then agreed to refund to Brightpoint as purported insurance claim payments. In the PNC Financial matter, the company shifted almost $800 million in troubled or underperforming loans from its books. The loans were sold to special-purpose entities created by A.I.G. but should have been included on PNC's financial statements, regulators said. When the S.E.C. took action against PNC Financial two years ago, A.I.G. was not named in the proceedings. But on Sept. 21, A.I.G. disclosed that the S.E.C. was considering suing it over the transactions with PNC. Negotiations to settle the matter halted a few weeks later when the regulator demanded that the company hire an independent monitor to scrutinize past transactions. Joe Norton, an A.I.G. spokesman, said the company had instructed its counsel to resolve the matters quickly in terms that were satisfactory to both the government and the company. ''Those are the instructions the company gave its attorneys and the company expects them to do their jobs,'' he said. As is its custom, the S.E.C. declined to comment on its settlement talks with A.I.G. Policies that help companies smooth their earnings, used legitimately, can allow insurers or corporations to spread their risk of loss on a particular asset or business over time and to other insurers willing to take on additional risk in exchange for premiums received. But for a policy to be considered true insurance, it must involve the transfer of some risk to the party receiving the premiums. If the contract states that the premiums paid by a corporation will be returned by the insurer at a later date, then such a policy looks like a loan rather than insurance. Finite insurance has been around since the 1980's. It became enormously popular in the late 1990's as costs related to litigation in the United States rocketed and companies had an increasingly difficult time accurately assessing their potential liabilities. In this environment of unknowns, limiting exposure through finite insurance took off in popularity. Adding to the appeal was its effect of smoothing volatile earnings, which corporations have come to dread because their stocks can decline significantly when earnings take an unexpected hit. Still, insurance and accounting experts say that the potential for abuse exists in finite insurance, as illustrated by the Brightpoint arrangement. As the regulatory spotlight on finite insurance has risen, A.I.G. has maintained that its sales of these products have been minimal. Maurice R. Greenberg, A.I.G.'s chief executive, is known for playing hardball with adversaries, whether competitors, regulators or customers filing a claim. In September, when the company disclosed that the S.E.C. was close to filing suit against it on the PNC matter, A.I.G. said that it thought that ''the proposed action would be unwarranted.'' Two weeks ago, however, when the company announced its third-quarter results, Mr. Greenberg said that he was ''not looking for a fight'' with regulators and was seeking a ''resolution that is fair to our shareholders and everybody concerned.''"}