{"title": "Chief Plans to Leave Paramount Pictures", "body_text": "Five months after assuming oversight of the movie division of Viacom Inc., Tom Freston, co-president and co-chief operating officer, is preparing major changes, including the replacement of the chairman of Paramount Pictures and the possible acquisition of an independent film company. The chairwoman, Sherry Lansing, one of Hollywood's most recognizable figures, has run the studio for the last 12 years. She said on Tuesday that she would step down when her contract expires at the end of 2005. ''I'm committed to staying until there's somebody that's great,'' said Ms. Lansing, who is 60. ''We're proceeding as if business is normal.'' Mr. Freston said that he would immediately begin looking for a successor, with an eye to finding someone who can ''help invent this new era at Paramount.'' He said he was looking to develop ''a slate of films that have a younger skew than we have had historically, and with a stronger focus on specialty films.'' Mr. Freston -- who made his mark at Viacom as chairman of its MTV Networks division -- added that he wanted Paramount to be more talent-friendly, to develop further the home entertainment unit, and to be more aggressive in holding onto the international distribution rights of movies. Sumner M. Redstone, Viacom chief executive, said he was ''really sad'' Ms. Lansing was leaving. Although he said he and Ms. Lansing were good friends, the relationship had little to do with her tenure at Paramount. ''I think her track record, past and future, is a really good one,'' he said. Mr. Freston said Ms. Lansing informed him last Wednesday that she did not intend to renew her contract and wanted to pursue career goals outside of Hollywood. ''That was the discussion,'' he said. ''I had a lot of things on my mind, but we never really got to them. I listened to her, and I believed her.'' The Los Angeles Times reported news of Ms. Lansing's intended departure on Tuesday. Her future had been the subject of speculation since the promotion of Mr. Freston and Leslie Moonves, a veteran of the company's CBS network operation, last June. The reorganization passed over Ms. Lansing's boss and close collaborator, Jonathan Dolgen, Viacom entertainment chief. Mr. Dolgen resigned shortly thereafter. A pioneer among female executives in Hollywood, Ms. Lansing paved the way for the numerous women in senior studio jobs. She ran 20th Century Fox Productions in 1980, and three years later became a producer in Jaffe-Lansing Productions. At Paramount, which she took over in 1992, Ms. Lansing oversaw a run of hits, including ''Forrest Gump,'' ''Braveheart,'' and ''Titanic,'' which was a co-production with Fox. But she has been criticized in the last several years for Paramount's weak performance, with a track record of underperforming mid-budget thrillers, remakes and formulaic fare like last year's ''Paycheck,'' a co-venture with DreamWorks SKG. Disappointments in recent months included ''The Stepford Wives,'' ''Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow'' and even the critically lauded ''The Manchurian Candidate'' and the puppet comedy ''Team America: World Police.'' This weekend Paramount will open another remake, ''Alfie,'' which market research has shown to be tracking weakly with audiences, according to one Paramount insider. So far this year, Paramount ranks seventh in market share, with just 5.7 percent of the domestic box office, according to boxofficemojo.com, which tracks ticket sales. Earlier this year, Ms. Lansing unveiled a plan to re-energize the studio. She appointed the producer Donald De Line to head production and put money into bigger-budget movies like ''Lemony Snicket's a Series of Unfortunate Events,'' and Steven Spielberg's ''War of the Worlds.'' (Both are co-productions with DreamWorks.) In addition, Mr. Freston and Ms. Lansing have been negotiating to buy an art-house studio to expand Paramount's involvement in specialty films. The executives looked at the independent studio Lions Gate Entertainment, which merged with Artisan last year, but decided it was overpriced, Viacom executives said. Instead they have been negotiating in recent days with Newmarket Films, which is principally a distributor of independent films like ''The Passion of the Christ'' by Mel Gibson. Mr. Freston also said he was considering a business plan to expand Paramount Classics, the art-house division run by Ruth Vitale and David Dinerstein. What Ms. Lansing's eventual departure means for one of her closest colleagues, Rob Friedman, vice chairman of Paramount's motion picture group, is unclear. He has also been associated with the studio's poor performance in recent years and has had tense relations with Mr. Freston in the past, mainly related to the handling of MTV movie projects. Mr. Friedman said he had no plans to leave. ''Sherry's not leaving for a while, so I'm going to do my job,'' he said. Since being promoted, Mr. Freston has made few major changes. But in a speech to investors in September, he outlined areas that needed work, including relations with filmmakers and cooperation among Viacom properties. Mr. Freston also said it made sense to increase the number of movies for the younger audience, partly because Viacom has expertise in the segment (it owns Nickelodeon as well as MTV). Mr. Redstone said that he and Mr. Freston ''both agree that since the movie audience is a young audience, the people that really drive the business, I think we'd bring in producers who had a connection with younger people. ''But I don't think we need a dramatic overhaul at the studio.'' Mr. Freston said he was not satisfied with the studio's performance, but believed that it was on the right track. ''It takes a long time to make changes at a movie studio, it's like turning an ocean liner,'' he said. Ms. Lansing, who started as a math teacher and became an actress, said she was proud of her record at Paramount, but wanted to pursue a ''third career'' in the nonprofit world. She is also active in Democratic politics, and is a regent of the University of California. ''The last couple of years have not been everything we wanted, we were profitable anyway. And yet, at some point, you have to move on,'' she said. ''There's a whole world out there I'm very interested in.''"}