{"title": "For E.D.S. And Its Kin, Deeper Trouble Than Audits", "body_text": "Electronic Data Systems, the computer services giant, ensured a bit of added interest for its quarterly earnings report when it announced last week that it was delaying the report until today because of a dispute with its auditors. The disagreement with the auditing firm, KPMG, centers on calculating the value -- and likely further losses -- from the company's long-troubled computer services contract with the United States Navy. E.D.S. moved quickly to calm investors by offering reassuring guidance for the quarter, excluding the Navy contract, and noting that any added write-off would be a noncash charge. And the next day, it took the sort of action that really pleases Wall Street: It cut its payroll. The company offered early-retirement buyouts to 9,200 workers, about 17 percent of the American work force. It expects about half of them to accept the offer, reducing operating costs by about $150 million starting in 2006. The share price of E.D.S. has since fared nicely, closing at $21.16 yesterday, up 5.6 percent since the company disclosed the auditing dispute after the end of trading on Oct. 25. In the daily logic of Wall Street, this positive response may be sensible. But to industry analysts with a longer perspective, the latest trouble at E.D.S. points to larger challenges confronting the $400 billion-a-year computer services business. ''The Navy contract is a symptom,'' said Linda Cohen, a senior analyst at Gartner Inc., the technology research firm. ''This is an industry and a marketplace that is not in great shape.'' The main challenges, analysts say, are a backlog of problem contracts, an increasing need to substitute automation for labor in managing corporate data centers, and the difficulty of making the transition from low-margin outsourcing services to areas of higher profitability. To prosper, the analysts say, computer services companies must shift steadily from managing armies of workers in the computing engine rooms of corporations to offering customized packages of technology services for tasks like searching for new retail customers and helping scientists find breakthrough drugs. The future of technology services, they say, is in combining the expertise of business consultants with a deep knowledge of fields like retailing, telecommunications and banking with the skills of computing experts. The industry cannot afford to make this transformation gradually because it is so susceptible to the forces of technology-fueled globalization. Already, the basic work of computer services companies -- upgrading old programs and building new software applications -- is being sent offshore to inexpensive though well-educated workers, especially in India. Indeed, fast-emerging Indian outsourcing firms like Infosys, Wipro and Satyam are posing formidable challenges to older companies like E.D.S. Still, many problems of the American industry are homegrown. When the technology slump took hold in 2000, computer services companies were eager for revenue growth and for the next three years offered corporate clients deals that were far too sweet, analysts say. Not only was the pricing aggressive, they say, but the contracts often included performance guarantees with few controls. In effect, the companies offered big clients open-ended promises. The E.D.S. contract with the Navy, signed in 2000, was the classic misguided mega-deal. It was an eight-year contract, with total revenue valued as high as $8.8 billion, for maintaining and upgrading personal computers and networks at 4,000 Navy and Marine Corps locations. The deal has already piled up losses estimated at $1.6 billion. The value of the Navy contract on the E.D.S. books is now $700 million, which is the estimated value of its future income. A further charge could come today. In their financial analysis of E.D.S., some investors already place little or no value on the contract. E.D.S. is hardly alone in having to wrestle with deals gone sour. In September, I.B.M. lost a seven-year, $5 billion outsourcing deal with J.P. Morgan Chase that was announced in December 2002. Morgan withdrew after it merged with Bank One this year. Analysts point out that long-term, multibillion-dollar outsourcing deals usually turn out badly for computer services companies. They often mean taking over a client's technology staff and data centers, and promising the client that the job can be done more cheaply. ''My mess for less,'' as corporate executives describe such deals. The financial structure of the deals, analysts say, typically involves losing money in the early years of the service contract and betting that money can be made later. Clients eager for savings in the early years often want to renegotiate the contract when the savings end. This kind of dynamic, the analysts say, tends to leave both sides dissatisfied, suggesting that multibillion-dollar contracts will be scarce in the future. That could well mean slower growth for companies like I.B.M., E.D.S. and Computer Sciences, which have relied most on big deals, according to Rod Bourgeois, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. ''Top-line growth is going to be tough for them,'' Mr. Bourgeois added. ''These are the companies that have lived and died by megadeals.'' Indeed, the growth of I.B.M.'s services business, which represents about half of I.B.M.'s revenue, is slowing to an estimated 3 or 4 percent this year, excluding currency gains. I.B.M. has moved forcefully into more profitable businesses that combine consulting with technology services. But to bolster growth further, it is also buying services companies, including Daksh, an Indian specialist outsourcer with revenue of $60 million, and a European services company, Maersk, with yearly revenue of about $500 million, in a deal expected to close this quarter. Other companies are confronting new uncertainties. Cap Gemini, Europe's largest technology services company, in September reported a surprising loss for the first half of the year and replaced its chief financial officer amid speculation that it might be a takeover target. Even Accenture, a stellar performer, lowered its revenue growth expectations last month for the coming year to 9 percent to 12 percent, from earlier guidance of 10 percent to 15 percent. On Wall Street, any optimism about the industry is carefully hedged. On Aug. 23, for example, Mr. Bourgeois upgraded his rating on E.D.S. to outperform. At the time, the stock was trading around $17 and he explained that he believed analysts were overly negative about the company because there were signs that the business was stabilizing and gradually improving under Michael H. Jordan, who became chief executive a year and a half ago. At the time, Mr. Bourgeois placed a target price of $22 on the E.D.S. shares, not all that far from yesterday's closing price. Roughly 80 percent of E.D.S. revenue, he noted, comes from mature, highly competitive businesses like tending to computer networks and maintaining software applications. ''There are not a lot of attractive businesses in the mix,'' he said. ''I would be blown away if E.D.S. had revenue growth in 2005.'' MARKET PLACE Correction:  November 11, 2004, Thursday  Because of an editing error, the Market Place column in Business Day on Nov. 3, about the delay in the quarterly report at Electronic Data Systems, misstated the revenue of the computer services industry overall in some copies. It was $400 billion last year; $21.5 billion was the figure for E.D.S."}