{"title": "In the N.B.A., The Globe Is Round, Too", "body_text": "ROSTERS continue to take on names that are certain to twist American tongues: Vujacic and Varaejo, Kutluay and Krstic, Radmanovic and Radojevic. The number of international players in the N.B.A. is approaching 20 percent. The team many are picking to win the championship this season, San Antonio, will start four players who were born outside the United States. China's Yao Ming is widely regarded as the world's second-best center. The first Japanese-born player, Yuta Tabuse, is a reserve point guard for the Phoenix Suns. ''When you can't pronounce the name of the player who doesn't look like you, there is a tendency to feel like you are losing something,'' Nat Irvin II said. ''But there is something going on in the world that is larger than how we play ball.'' I met Irvin two years ago at an N.B.A. rookie seminar program at which we had been asked to speak. An assistant dean and executive professor at the Babcock Graduate School of Management at Wake Forest University, Irvin is also the founder of Future Focus 2020, which is dedicated to bringing futurist thinking to urban and minority communities. Just a couple of weeks before the rookie program, a team of N.B.A. stars representing U.S.A. Basketball had been beaten for the first, second and third times at the 2002 world championships in Indianapolis. The drafting of foreign-born players by N.B.A. teams was accelerating. Kenny Smith, the former Houston Rockets' point guard and the TNT studio analyst, had voiced concerns about the loss of N.B.A. jobs for African-Americans, who for decades have dominated the league. Irvin, an African-American, made it clear to the rookies that the internationalization of the sport was no ''conspiratorial notion,'' based on the belief that ''there are too many blacks and how can we get more white players into the game?'' He said what was occurring in professional basketball was no different than what is happening in most other aspects of our society. In a recent telephone interview, he called the globalization of the N.B.A. ''a wakeup call in the black community to stop thinking that sports is the only way out,'' and a welcome one, at that. ''We live in a world in which there is a continuous search for global talent in all areas -- science, technology, business,'' he said. ''Our kids are competing in the classroom against Pakistanis and Indians and Chinese. I know there is something happening in the black community reflecting an understanding of the need to compete beyond our borders, although it often is overshadowed by sports and that'' makes him angry. At Future Focus 2020, Irvin promotes the rising numbers of African-Americans completing high school and attending college rather than worry about the N.B.A.'s gradual reconstitution. He said the attitudes in sports are too often regressive, harkening to preferences within the black community for segregated schools and complaints from coaches of historically black colleges when their recruiting base became the target of the larger football and basketball-playing universities. The charge that the N.B.A. is attempting to broaden itself racially fails to acknowledge the players of color flowing from Europe, South America and Africa -- which happens to be the market with the raw potential league executives and scouts are most intrigued by. It was, of course, the N.B.A. stars of the Michael Jordan era who helped initiate the global movement by anointing themselves America's savior in the international competitions for the purpose of expanding their ancillary revenue streams. Now the foreign youngsters who grew up wanting to Be Like Mike are competing with players born in the United States for precious few jobs. The evolutionary process should remind us that professional basketball was never the proprietary domain of African-Americans any more than it was for white players who held exclusivity into the 1950's. ''If we can get to the point where the N.B.A. is not considered the black man's way out, that's better for the black community,'' Irvin said. ''Every time I hear a kid say he wants to be something other than an N.B.A. player, that's better. When I hear a kid say he wants to own an N.B.A. team rather than play for one, that's really better. Which leads us to the most significant development of a season that began last night. Bigger than Shaquille O'Neal's relocation to Miami, bigger even than Phil Jackson's latest book, is the expansion Charlotte Bobcats' principal ownership by the Black Entertainment Television founder, Bob Johnson. This is also the season after a summer in which the reputation of the N.B.A. and especially the American players took another major hit by the United States' failure to win a gold medal at the Athens Games. More soul-searching ensued about what's gone wrong, about how the world has made up so much ground since the beat-me, whip-me, take-my-picture clinics Jordan and company conducted at the 1992 Barcelona Olympics. Far from playing the race card, no less a respected commentator than John Thompson, the former Georgetown coach, has blamed the American system of entitlement, the pursuit of the almighty shoe contract and television face time, that has abbreviated or in some cases eliminated the concept of apprenticeship. This, in turn, has produced a generation of players with a limited understanding of the game's fundamentals. Not to worry, Nat Irvin argued. ''What will be interesting to watch is how the American game will slowly be redesigned to reflect this new reality,'' he said. ''It will not just be global in name but in style as well.'' Which, I guess, was the academic's way of offering the hope that, sooner or later, our guys will once again learn how to shoot. Sports of The Times E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com"}