{"title": "Knicks Not Sure What Matches Their New Look", "body_text": "The Knicks boarded a private plane Tuesday afternoon for a flight that departed from Benefit of the Doubt and touched down somewhere in the haze of Weighty Expectations. There were no reports of turbulence along the way, although some is expected in the weeks to come. A team constructed almost entirely over the last 10 months and molded mostly over the past four weeks, the Knicks enter the new season balancing optimism and reality, hoping that they will have learned each other's names come tip-off. Eventually, they may be contenders for the Atlantic Division title. For the next few weeks, and beginning Wednesday in downtown Minneapolis, they simply hope to be competent and cohesive. The schedule begins with the Minnesota Timberwolves -- who fell two victories short of a Western Conference title last spring -- and it gets harder from there. Allan Houston will not play for at least two weeks and the rotation is shaky in spots, but sometime soon, the new-look Knicks will have to develop an identity. No one can say yet what this team is capable of achieving. The Knicks know only that they need to figure it out before a tough November schedule sinks them. ''This is when you show not only your division and your conference, but the rest of the league, what you're made of,'' the veteran swingman Penny Hardaway said. ''You want to gain an identity early. And in the past, Knick teams have always had that identity when they go on the floor. Whether for toughness or physical play or whatever, we have to gain an identity in these games that we have, because we're playing great teams early. And if you can go in and beat those teams up and get wins, then that's sending a message to the rest of the league.'' Hardaway is one of 11 players wearing a Knicks uniform on opening night for the first time. Four-fifths of the starting lineup has changed from a year ago. Kurt Thomas, the lone holdover, is joined in the frontcourt by Tim Thomas and Nazr Mohammed. The backcourt is Stephon Marbury and Jamal Crawford. Together, they represent Isiah Thomas's vision for a new Knicks era. Most of the players on the roster were not with the team during its three straight losing seasons, but they carry the burden of turning it around. ''I'm very realistic,'' said Isiah Thomas, who is entering his first full season as Knicks president, ''and I go into the season with a nervous stomach, because every time the season starts, every time it's tip-off, you always have the butterflies in your stomach.'' Hopes are high, but expectations are being tempered. Knicks Coach Lenny Wilkens said he would know his team's character and potential by the time it has played 20 games. Isiah Thomas has surveyed that same span of games and, bowing to the difficulty of the schedule, has said, ''We'd be lucky to be .500.'' Eleven of the Knicks' first 20 games are on the road, including a difficult four-game trip that sends them from Indiana to San Antonio to Dallas to Houston. The Pacers are a contender to win the Eastern Conference. San Antonio is a favorite to win the West. Dallas and Houston are strong teams with the potential for deep playoff runs. Nine of the first 20 games are against teams that made the playoffs last season. ''It'd be nice to start off from Day 1,'' said Crawford, who is starting at shooting guard in place of Houston. ''If we go into Minnesota and get a win, that would be huge for us.'' The eight-game preseason provided few insights into the Knicks' collective character. Marbury, a member of the United States Olympic team last summer, played sparingly because Wilkens wanted to conserve his energy. Mohammed played just well enough to keep the starting job at center, but only because Vin Baker was not physically ready to challenge him. Mike Sweetney, hyped as a possible starter at forward, instead showed his youth and never challenged Kurt Thomas's hold on the job. Crawford dazzled when the Knicks played at Madison Square Garden, but he struggled on the road. The Knicks' defense is suspect, and it will be tested every game by a string of annual most valuable player contenders: Minnesota's Kevin Garnett, Philadelphia's Allen Iverson, Indiana's Jermaine O'Neal, San Antonio's Tim Duncan, Houston's Tracy McGrady and Dallas's Dirk Nowitzki. ''We're very capable of winning,'' Marbury said. ''I mean, if we're .500 playing the teams that we're playing, that's good. If we are above .500 when we come back, that's great.'' But no matter how the victories and defeats stack up in the first few weeks, the Knicks are already ahead of where they were a year ago, when losing had become almost expected. ''It's night and day,'' Kurt Thomas said. ''Night and day.'' PRO BASKETBALL"}