{"title": "Stottlemyre Has Gone to the Mound the Last Time", "body_text": "Mel Stottlemyre, the pitching coach who has been at Manager Joe Torre's side since the Yankees hired him in 1996, will not return in 2005. A person who spoke to one of Stottlemyre's colleagues said yesterday that Stottlemyre would not be back for a 10th season as coach. The Yankees will promote Neil Allen, the Class AAA Columbus pitching coach the past two seasons, to replace Stottlemyre. Not having Stottlemyre will be a major adjustment for Torre, who has basically entrusted the pitching decisions to Stottlemyre during their successful tenure together. On the day after the Boston Red Sox surprised the Yankees in the American League Championship Series, Torre said he hoped Stottlemyre would come back and reiterated how important Stottlemyre had been to the team's four championships in the last nine seasons. But less than two weeks later, Stottlemyre decided to leave. Stottlemyre might have figured he would be blamed for the Yankees' troubled pitching in the A.L.C.S. and decided his fate before George Steinbrenner, the principal owner, could decide it. Steinbrenner is known for dismissing coaches to jolt the team, and Stottlemyre thought Steinbrenner might fire him last year. ''I'm not prepared to discuss the coaching staff at this point,'' General Manager Brian Cashman said yesterday. When Cashman was asked if Stottlemyre had contacted him, he again declined to comment. Stottlemyre did not respond to a telephone message left at his home in Issaquah, Wash. With Willie Randolph, the bench coach, looming as the leading candidate to become the manager of the Mets, Stottlemyre departing and Don Mattingly's future as the hitting coach uncertain, the Yankees are poised to have a remodeled staff next season. Mattingly has not told the Yankees whether he is interested in returning for a second year. Whenever Torre was asked about his pitchers, he would inevitably say that he first had to talk to Stottlemyre or that Stottlemyre had not yet made a decision. Torre enjoyed delegating the authority to a former major league pitcher who knew more about the art of pitching than he did, and Stottlemyre enjoyed having such a significant role. It seems unlikely that Torre will immediately give Allen as much responsibility. Torre has lost his two most trusted coaches, Don Zimmer and Stottlemyre, in back-to-back years. Zimmer left as bench coach after the 2003 season. The dugout image of the imperturbable Torre used to include Stottlemyre and Zimmer on either side of him. The Yankees' starting rotation underwent a face-lift before this season, adding Javier Vazquez, Kevin Brown and Jon Lieber and losing Roger Clemens, Andy Pettitte and David Wells. In 2003, the Yankees had a 4.02 earned run average, which was third best in the league. The Yankees had a mediocre 4.69 E.R.A. in 2004. Five other American League teams, including the Red Sox, had a better E.R.A. Vazquez and Brown never pitched consistently this season, and relievers Paul Quantrill and Tom Gordon were weary when they were needed to contribute in September and October. The Yankees essentially operated without a reliable left-handed starter or a left-handed reliever. That is a deficiency Cashman will surely address for 2005. If Steinbrenner wanted to tweak Stottlemyre with statistics, he could have emphasized that the Yankees had a spiffy 3.87 E.R.A. in 2002, almost a run lower than it was this season. The Yankees had the best E.R.A. in the league in 1997 and 1998 and finished second in 1999. In Stottlemyre's nine seasons as pitching coach, the Yankees were in the league's top five in E.R.A. seven times. Stottlemyre, who will turn 63 this month, was found to have multiple myeloma, cancer of the blood plasma, on April 9, 2000. While undergoing four months of chemotherapy, he continued to coach. When Stottlemyre left the Yankees in September for a stem cell transplant and was unable to coach them to their third straight championship, Billy Connors filled in. The affable, eloquent Stottlemyre started his career with the Yankees in 1964 and won 20 or more games three times in his first six seasons. He finished with a 164-139 record and a 2.97 E.R.A. in 11 seasons. Before Stottlemyre joined Torre and the Yankees, he was the pitching coach for the Mets from 1984 to 1993. Allen, a minor league coach with the Yankees for five seasons, spent the previous four seasons with the Toronto Blue Jays. He pitched for the Mets for three seasons when Torre was their manager (1979 to 1981) as well as with the Yankees in an 11-year career in which he was 58-70 with 75 saves. Allen, who has worked with the Yankees during spring training, also spent the last month of 2003 with the club. He follows a coach who was popular and successful and a friend of Torre's, which could add stress to a stressful job. BASEBALL Correction:  November 13, 2004, Saturday  A sports picture caption on Nov. 3 with an article about the possibility that Mel Stottlemyre would not return as pitching coach of the New York Yankees misidentified the game that followed his meeting in the bullpen with pitcher Mike Mussina. It was Game 1 of the American League Championship Series, not Game 5."}