{"title": "Leyland Balks At Job With Mets", "body_text": "The convoluted game of phone tag between Omar Minaya and Jim Leyland, which lasted nearly a month and intensified in the past week, ended yesterday with the understanding that they really did not have to talk to each other after all. Minaya, the Mets' general manager, called Leyland yesterday morning to outline what he was looking for from the next Mets manager, and to gauge Leyland's interest in the job. Minaya said Leyland pulled out of the running shortly after he heard Minaya's expectations. ''I let him know that if he's interested in managing again, we have interest in him,'' Minaya said. ''I gave him a description of what I'm looking for and he thanked me for considering him, but the job description was not what he was looking for right now. He said, 'I thank you for being straight with me, but I'm going to pass.''' Leyland, however, characterized the conversation differently, saying that he and Minaya came to a joint decision. ''We had a mutual agreement after we talked that neither party thought it was a right fit,'' said Leyland, who has managed the Pittsburgh Pirates, the Florida Marlins and the Colorado Rockies. ''The understanding we had worked out great.'' This is the latest contradiction between Minaya and Leyland. They first spoke early last month, when Leyland called to recommend Gene Lamont for the position, and Minaya told him he was looking for ''a young guy.'' Then last week at the World Series in St. Louis, Minaya approached Leyland after learning that he was interested in managing again. Leyland said he wanted to consider one team at a time, and they agreed to talk after Leyland was interviewed in Philadelphia on Monday. But Monday night, Leyland said that he expected the Mets to call him, and Minaya said that he expected Leyland to call him. Neither budged. When Minaya finally made contact yesterday, he told Leyland that he expected the Mets' next manager to serve for three years or longer and to fulfill duties not always asked of veteran managers. Minaya says he wants the new manager to perform community service, to travel to Latin America to observe winter baseball and to attend instructional leagues. He characterized the position as ''a 12-month job.'' ''I'm looking for a manager who is going to commit himself, not only on the baseball side, but in things outside the baseball realm,'' Minaya said. ''Certain situations are more of a one-year mind-set. I am not about a one-year mind-set. I want to work with somebody for more than one year.'' Minaya would not reveal what made Leyland balk, but Leyland resigned from the Rockies in 1999 because he said he was burned out and wanted to spend more time with his family in Pittsburgh. Asked if the off-field demands made him leery, Leyland said, ''That was part of the conversation and part of what I wanted to listen to.'' Leyland remains in the running for the Philadelphia job. Minaya will interview three finalists today, all of whom appear to be eager to work year-round. The Yankees' bench coach, Willie Randolph, and the Texas hitting coach, Rudy Jaramillo, have never managed before and the Dodgers' field coordinator, Terry Collins, is known for his energy. Minaya left open the slight possibility that another candidate could ''pop up,'' but he added that Bobby Valentine could not get out of his contract with the Chiba Lotte Marines, and he acknowledged that he would probably pick a manager from the three finalists. Minaya indicated that he could choose whomever he wants and did not need the endorsement of the team's principal owner, Fred Wilpon. INSIDE PITCH The Mets say they hope to negotiate new contracts with pitchers Al Leiter and Kris Benson in the next week and expect both to return. BASEBALL"}