{"title": "The Pillar From the Block", "body_text": "The baseball players at Samuel J. Tilden High School, desperate for a winner, say they only watch the Mets in games against the Yankees. The reverend from Brooklyn, who attended Tilden High more than 30 years ago, traverses the country to preach about equality, but rarely about baseball. And the retired basketball star from Brownsville, whose very name evokes a better place, explains that he comes from a block different from Willie Randolph's. But this is no time for the neighborhood to lock its doors or bar its windows. The high school baseball players vow to reconsider their allegiances if one of their own is made the Mets' manager. The reverend, Al Sharpton, takes a break from the presidential campaign to endorse a former classmate for another high-profile leadership position. And the retired basketball player, World B. Free, promises to squash old rivalries and pull for the man he calls ''one of the kids from the building.'' For most of his 50 years, Willie Randolph has been running from that building. He has gone from the Tilden Houses on Dumont Avenue to the infield at Yankee Stadium, to a house in the New Jersey suburbs, to a spot on the Yankees' bench next to Joe Torre. But the notion that he remains ''one of the kids from the building'' is part of the reason he is considered the leading candidate to manage the team he grew up cheering. Randolph is one of three finalists to be Mets manager and will go through a second round of interviews today at Shea Stadium. The most compelling parts of Randolph's r\u00e9sum\u00e9 are the blank spaces. He has never been a professional manager, and though many assume he learned the game during 13 years as a Yankees infielder and 11 years as a Yankees coach, his baseball education actually came at the Parade Grounds and at Shea Stadium. His survival skills were honed not in George Steinbrenner's Bronx Zoo, but between the Tilden Houses and Tilden High. This part of his r\u00e9sum\u00e9, more than any of his accomplishments across town, must resonate with an owner who is also from Brooklyn, who grew up when Jackie Robinson was breaking the color barrier, who went to high school with Sandy Koufax, and who still hopes to build a stadium that harks back to Ebbets Field. Fred Wilpon, the Mets' principal owner, has always been mindful of his roots. He brought a minor league baseball team to Coney Island, hired a Hispanic general manager from Queens and could now hire the first African-American manager of a major league team in New York, completing part of a legacy that cannot be measured solely by victories and losses. The Sentimental Choice Because the Mets are sentimental almost to a fault -- keeping veterans long after their prime, allowing devoted fans to take batting practice on the field and giving players' children the run of the home clubhouse -- they haven't forgotten that Randolph moved with his family to Brooklyn from South Carolina when the Dodgers were still playing at Ebbets Field, and they know that his first baseball glove was a Jackie Robinson model. From the moment he slipped that mitt over his fingers, Randolph became the centerpiece of a quintessential New York coming-of-age story. He played stickball, stoopball and punch ball outside the project where he grew up. He learned from his Hispanic neighbors how to field grounders off the rocks at Betsy Head Park. He watched World B. Free -- known simply as Lloyd back then -- shoot baskets in driving rainstorms. Randolph saved his allowance to attend his first game at Shea Stadium, between the Mets and the Cubs, and saw Billy Williams hit a home run. When he was a teenager, the Con Edison seats in the upper deck at Shea became his second home. After games, he would sit in the back seat and keep his eyes trained on Shea until it faded from sight. In 1969, when the Mets won the World Series, Randolph danced in the streets. ''That was the underdog team in town, and they had a feisty group of professionals who played hard every day,'' Randolph said recently. ''It was very special. Growing up in Brownsville, we tried to imitate Mets players.'' His businesslike persona was honed in the image of the Miracle Mets. While Sharpton led political rallies at Tilden High and while brawls broke out in the hallways, Randolph stayed on the fringes and found refuge on the diamond. He seemed incapable of making an error, on or off the field, and when the starting catcher broke his leg in his senior year, Randolph volunteered to leave his position at shortstop and hunkered down behind the plate. ''He was the kind of guy you know is there, but not because he makes you notice,'' Sharpton said Friday. ''He was not nearly as vocal or public as I was, but you always had a feeling that he had leadership abilities in his own quiet way. Willie and I talk now about how we have the same kind of personalities we had in high school.'' Some major league scouts were leery of going to Brownsville to watch Randolph play. He grew up five minutes from where Mike Tyson would later rob elderly women. Unlike Tyson, Randolph had two parents at home and a brother who was drafted by the Green Bay Packers. He met his wife in Brownsville and still takes their children back to visit. ''I remember that he was always the first one at the baseball field and the first one with his cleats on,'' said Kevin Rice, who, as a child, watched Randolph play at the Parade Grounds and is now the baseball coach at Tilden High. ''He was unassuming, but he had that spark.'' After the Pittsburgh Pirates selected Randolph in the sixth round of the amateur draft in 1972, he negotiated his contract between innings of an American Legion game on Diamond 1 at the Parade Grounds, with his youth coach serving as his agent. Randolph played in the field, then ran to the scout's car to read the fine print while his team batted. ''Any kid coming out of that neighborhood has a toughness most kids don't, brings an energy most kids don't and has a drive most people don't,'' said Mel Vitter, who helped take over the Youth Service League from his parents, and has been a close friend of Randolph's for nearly 40 years. ''Willie was never blessed with huge physical ability. He was never the strongest or the fastest. He made himself with his attitude.'' Traded to the Yankees After Pittsburgh traded Randolph to the Yankees in 1976, after one major league season, the crooner Bing Crosby made a special point of going to Yankee Stadium for the home opener to see the team's new second baseman. Crosby, then a vice president of the Pirates, thought his club had given up a future star. Randolph kept as low a profile in the Yankees' boisterous clubhouse as he had in the Tilden Houses, but he became a co-captain, a five-time American League All-Star and a steadying force on a team that won four pennants in six years. ''I remember someone back then telling me, 'Willie Randolph is in the major leagues,' and I was like, 'Whoa, I don't believe it,''' World B. Free said. ''You just didn't think he'd be the guy to make the majors. He was shy and he was quiet. I guess he was like our Superman. On the outside, he wasn't flashy, but then he'd jump over a building.'' When Randolph finally returned to Shea Stadium in 1989, he was with the Los Angeles Dodgers and had gone 536 at-bats without a home run. The Dodgers trailed by two runs with two outs in the ninth inning when Randolph bashed an opposite-field three-run homer to win the game. Little more than two years later, the Mets signed Randolph so he could finish his career where he first dreamed of starting it. Now, as he eyes Shea Stadium again, this time from the driver's seat, Randolph has six World Series rings, has tutored Derek Jeter and has watched a dynasty unfold from the Yankees' third-base coaching box. But he has also been interviewed for 11 or 12 managerial positions -- it is hard for him to remember the total -- and has struck out nearly every time. The Cincinnati Reds offered Randolph a managing job in 2000, but the pay was relatively minimal, and he turned it down. The Mets interviewed him two years ago, but they went instead with Art Howe. If Randolph does not get the opportunity this time around, the question will invariably be asked: Will he ever? And if he never gets his shot, then how can the students at his alma mater expect to get theirs? Eric Eisenberg, known as Rock, patrols the halls at Tilden High, the same halls Randolph once walked, and says, ''All that's changed is a coat of paint.'' Eisenberg, the school's basketball coach and athletic director, presides over a $14,000 budget for 28 teams. The baseball team had two bats, but one was just stolen. The sign in Eisenberg's office reads, ''The strong shall take from the weak and the smart shall take from the strong.'' ''The Baltimore Orioles hired Lee Mazzilli, and he represents one Brooklyn,'' Eisenberg said. ''Willie Randolph represents the other. For him to get hired, I think it would raise the self-esteem of the kids here, and it would give the teachers someone else to point to and ask, 'Why not you?''' When Eisenberg heard a few students talking about basketball last week, he asked whether they would care more about the Mets if Randolph were hired, and they nodded. The school security guard, James Brown, said he would go to Shea more often if Randolph were the manager. And Rice, the baseball coach, asked his players whether Randolph could help convert them from the Yankees to the Mets. ''With Willie, they told me there would be a change,'' Rice said. ''Without a doubt, I know our guys would go to more Mets games. They're excited about this. It's a lot like what Torre did for the Yankees. The team had the added benefit of hiring a manager from New York. The same thing would happen with Willie Randolph. We're all pulling for him, and 80 percent of the reason is because we're proud of him. Twenty percent of the reason is that we hope he'll donate more.'' The baseball program at Tilden was disbanded in 1992, and when the former coach Nerva Jean-Pierre helped bring it back in 1996, Randolph donated bats, balls and uniforms. He wrote a modest check. He took a few of the players to Yankee Stadium and gave them tours. Jean-Pierre looked at the students as they walked around the stadium and saw the energy in their eyes. ''A lot of those kids have friends who made bad decisions, and here was someone who made the right decisions, even if they weren't the most popular,'' Jean-Pierre said. ''It was a testament to staying focused.'' Rescuing the Junkyard The school is grateful for the bats and the balls and the uniforms, but students could also use scholarships and SAT prep courses, and maybe even a visit once in a while. Managing the Mets would provide Randolph with a platform to do more for the neighborhood that nurtured him and is now supporting him. It was here, after all, that Randolph learned how to handle the worst possible bounces and still make every play. In the back of his old high school is the field where he used to put his head down and take grounders off his chin. The dirt was usually littered with broken glass and beer bottles. One coach called it the junkyard, and the nickname stuck. Today, the glass is swept away and the dirt is covered by a layer of FieldTurf, a gleaming artificial surface just like the one at Giants Stadium. Take the Field, a program started by the Giants co-owner Bob Tisch, has supplied Tilden and many other inner-city high schools with a new place to play. In the sunshine, each blade of turf seems to reflect a beam of light. The field has become a shimmering sign of progress for those who play there, and for those who used to play there. To think that the junkyard could turn into that green cathedral, and that one of the kids from the building could get the keys to Shea Stadium, is almost enough to make Al Sharpton speechless and World B. Free spin on his axis. BASEBALL"}