{"title": "Raft of Upsets In First Month", "body_text": "If college hockey were looking for a marketing slogan this season, it could steal a page from the National Football League, where the phrase ''on any given Sunday'' has long been an allusion to the league's competitive balance and the likelihood of upsets. Among the 58 Division I men's hockey programs, the first month of the 2004-5 season has produced a number of surprising results. Michigan (5-2-1, 3-1-0 Central Collegiate Hockey Association), which was No. 1 in the preseason U.S. College Hockey Online Poll, lost its opener, at home, to unranked Northeastern. North Dakota (4-2-2, 2-1-1 Western Collegiate Hockey Association) took over the top spot, but after a tie at unranked Minnesota State, it was replaced the next week by Boston College. The Eagles (3-1, 1-0 Hockey East) were promptly upended at Notre Dame (1-4-2, 0-3-1 C.C.H.A.) -- which was unranked. Minnesota-Duluth (5-1-2, 4-0 W.C.H.A.) rose to the top, but it lost and tied visiting Vermont (2-4-1), which won only nine games last season and was picked to finish 10th in the 12-team Eastern College Athletic Conference. Last weekend, more underdogs played well. Northeastern (2-3-1) of Hockey East continued to surprise, tying North Dakota in Boston. St. Lawrence of the E.C.A.C. swept two games at home against Miami of Ohio of the C.C.H.A., which was ranked 10th at the time. Ferris State (2-6, 1-3 C.C.H.A.) ambushed Michigan in overtime. And Quinnipiac (3-2), which joins the E.C.A.C. next year from Atlantic Hockey, served notice it was ready with a victory over the E.C.A.C.'s Dartmouth (1-1), which was ranked 12th at the time. ''There's more parity than there has been,'' Ron Mason said in a telephone interview from West Lansing, Mich. Mason, now the Michigan State athletic director, retired from coaching with the most victories (924) of any college hockey coach. ''I think it's slowly but surely getting closer all the time. When you look at some of the new leagues, maybe as a whole they're not as good as some of the traditional leagues, but their good teams are still pretty good teams. ''When you're playing nonconference games at the beginning of the season, a lot can be said for 'Hey, they're up for grabs.''' The N.H.L. lockout may have had an impact on some traditional college powers, according to the former North Dakota coach Dean Blais. Blais, in a telephone interview from Columbus, Ohio, said the threat of a shortened N.H.L. season prompted some college players to turn professional before their eligibility was up. ''Some of the premier players signed early, like Thomas Vanek and Keith Ballard out of Minnesota and Zach Parise and Brandon Bochenski out of North Dakota,'' said Blais, who is now an associate coach with the Blue Jackets of the N.H.L. ''Some of the premier players exited to get their money, knowing there was going to be a lockout, which kind of takes the elite players out of the N.C.A.A., which makes more parity.'' DIVISION III  St. Norbert's Streak Ends Last season's national championship runner-up, St. Norbert of De Pere, Wis., had its N.C.A.A. Division III-record 36-game home winning streak snapped Saturday in a loss to Rochester Institute of Technology (1-1) in Green Bay, Wis. Middlebury, the defending champion, is ranked No. 1 in the Division III online poll, despite not having started its season. St. Norbert (1-1) is No. 2. WOMEN  Fast Start for Golden Gophers Minnesota (8-0) got off to a fast start in defense of its women's Division I title. The Golden Gophers have allowed only 5 goals while scoring 51. The United States Olympic teammates Natalie Darwitz (11 goals and 17 assists for 28 points) and Krissy Wendell (12-15-27) lead the nation in scoring. Their linemate, Kelly Stevens, is No. 6 in scoring (9-9-18). Slap Shots COACHING MILESTONE -- Jerry York of Boston College, who leads active Division I coaches in victories, won his 700th, over North Dakota on Friday. York trails only Ron Mason (924) and Bob Peters (744). TURNING TO THE TUBE -- College hockey fans with satellite TV service will be able to indulge their passion this season. According to the Web site Inside College Hockey (insidecollegehockey.com), between now and March 19, more than 100 Division I men's games will be televised by a variety of channels, including College Sports TV, New England Sports Network and local Fox Sports affiliates in Minnesota, Colorado and Michigan. NAMES TO REMEMBER -- Bryan Ewing, a freshman forward at Boston University might become popular with fans of the Jets and the Knicks. His nickname is Boomer, which gives him two names associated with New York pros -- Patrick Ewing and Boomer Esiason. COLLEGE HOCKEY: REPORT"}