{"title": "Pianist Looks Fondly at Janacek", "body_text": "In a program note for his Carnegie Hall recital on Thursday evening, the pianist Andras Schiff wrote that he thinks ''in terms of projects and not just single concerts.'' That seems to have been his approach all along: 25 years ago, he seemed focused on Bach, and concentrations on Mozart, Bartok and Schubert followed. Lately he has been interested in Janacek, although not for the first time. He recorded the composer's music for Decca in the early 1990's, and for ECM more recently. In the last couple of weeks, he played in two Janacek-centered chamber concerts at Zankel Hall (although in one, his own performance was in a Dvorak work), and at his recital he offered Janacek's three most substantial piano works, ''On the Overgrown Path'' (Series I), the Sonata ''1.X.1905,'' and ''In the Mists.'' Mr. Schiff finds a universe in these three scores. The tuneful, folk-tinged portraits embody both recollections of the rural Moravia of Janacek's youth and sorrow over the death of the composer's daughter in 1903. Those may not seem to be extremes. Nostalgia, after all, often has a melancholy tinge. Mr. Schiff navigated these currents deftly, and his success at keeping the distinctions clear paid off in his poignant reading of the final vignette, ''The Barn Owl Has Flown Away,'' where nostalgia and grief intermingle. The sonata, which commemorates a riot in Brno in which a student demonstrator was killed, and ''In the Mists,'' an introspective, often brooding work, are denser, more sharp-edged scores. Mr. Schiff's accounts of both thrived on clarity of texture and a fine balance of the dramatic and the emotional, and in the Sonata especially his fluid tempos put the music's passions in high relief. The program also included Smetana's ''Trois Polkas Po\u00e9tiques'' (Op. 8), a set of Chopinesque polka settings that, though charming, don't cry out for further exploration. Mr. Schiff closed the performance with a sparkling, regal account of Chopin's Sonata No. 3 in B minor (Op. 58), marred only by the eerie electronic whistle of a hearing aid during the Largo. RECITAL REVIEW"}