{"title": "Champion Pistons Open With Gleam on Fingers", "body_text": "A dazzling row of diamonds, including one to dot the i, spelled out Pistons, set in white gold in a band about the size of the face of a man's watch. It was the bling bling to end all rings. At the Palace, in the shadow of a landfill in suburban Detroit, the jewelry seemed to outshine the personality of its owners. That was certainly the case for Dave Muehring, a 50-year-old firefighter from Detroit, whose name Ben Wallace picked out of a barrel Monday to be the fan to receive a team ring at the season opener Tuesday night against the Houston Rockets. The script was perfect in an anti-Hollywood way. Detroit's grinding, team-first concept may embody a blue-collar work ethic, but in terms of glitz, glamour and superstar appeal, the defending N.B.A. champion Pistons know they are far from America's team. They wore boxing championship belts to accept their rings, then went out for a rousing 87-79 victory over the Rockets. Wallace, the team's answer to a superstar, scored 15 points and grabbed 10 rebounds. ''You can choose plenty of teams around this league and call them America's team,'' said Wallace, the two-time defensive player of the year. ''We just go out there and play team ball, and at the end of the day, we're going to be amongst the elite.'' The Pistons prize blocks over alley-oops, and they eschewed style for substance in allowing a league-low 84.3 points a game last season while putting five players in double figures on offense. True to form, each starter scored in double figures, with Rasheed Wallace leading all scorers with 24. ''It's not about, aesthetically, how it looks, or cosmetically, do we appeal to the highlights in ESPN?'' said Joe Dumars, the Pistons' unpretentious president of basketball operations, who as a guard helped lead Detroit to back-to-back titles in 1989 and 1990. ''We want to go out and prove that we're the best.'' After a banner-raising ceremony -- with Commissioner David Stern in attendance -- the slightly retooled and still low-key Pistons tipped off against Tracy McGrady, Yao Ming and the Rockets under a new mantra: validate. ''Every team needs a central theme to motivate them,'' said Dumars, who played with Isiah Thomas and Bill Laimbeer during the Bad Boys era. Rasheed Wallace, whose arrival at the trade deadline last season helped galvanize his teammates, said: ''Obviously, a majority of the people thought what we did was luck. We're going to just ball-out and prove it.'' Playing in a beefed-up Eastern Conference and after losing the backups Corliss Williamson, Mehmet Okur and Mike James to free agency, the Pistons hear Coach Larry Brown harp on that theme. ''I want us to validate last year by the way we played,'' Brown said Monday. ''To prove we were a special team.'' This is not the team Brown coached in Athens. Brown, still distraught over having to settle for the Olympic bronze medal, insisted that pursuing a second title was not about redemption. Dumars has another theory. ''What I deduced is that he's ready to really embrace this team again,'' he said. ''This team will allow him to show people the message he was trying to preach this summer.'' For a nickname, Dumars called his team castoffs because they were undrafted (Ben Wallace), unwanted (Chauncey Billups, traded six times before becoming the finals most valuable player), undersized (Richard Hamilton) or misunderstood (Rasheed Wallace). Into the mix came Antonio McDyess, the boundless forward who has had three knee operations in the last two seasons and who finally seems healthy. McDyess was ejected in the second quarter for punting the ball into the stands after being called for a foul. ''I knew right away this was going to be my home,'' said McDyess, who signed a four-year, $24 million deal. ''The attitudes are great, the work ethic is great. I had the opportunity to play with a championship team.'' Validation and vindication, these themes didn't fit only the defending champions. McGrady also has something to prove. After trading McGrady to Houston for Steve Francis, John Weisbrod, the Magic's general manager, blasted McGrady's me-first attitude. ''I just want to go out and play ball and make him look stupid as far as leading my team to that next level,'' McGrady said before the game. McGrady insists that he could not be happier playing with 7-foot-6 Yao Ming, and McGrady gives a different spin to Brown's mantra of ''playing the right way.'' ''That is playing the right way when you have a guy who can establish post position down there, you got to get it to him,'' said McGrady, who scored a team-high 18 points. ''You double-team him, you're leaving me out on the perimeter'' on an isolation play. McGrady missed 12 of 18 shots. Yao had just 7 points and was 2 of 9 from the field. Before the game, Houston Coach Jeff Van Gundy blasted the perception that Yao and McGrady were worthy of adulation. ''This infatuation with Yao and Tracy are the next Shaq and Kobe -- we have to win a lot to be in the same breath as those two guys,'' Van Gundy said. ''It's not them, it's the whole team, and too often people want to put it on two guys.'' The Pistons have put it on themselves to repeat. They couldn't care less that Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal have dominated the headlines in the breakup of the Lakers, once America's team. ''Normally, I don't like the team that everybody claims to be America's team,'' the backup point guard Lindsey Hunter said. ''Cowboys, I never liked them. ''Last year, we just exemplified what a team was. A lot of people said it was ugly basketball, but in the end everybody was like, 'Wow, we were watching the Pistons play.' As long as we win, I don't care.'' PRO BASKETBALL"}