{"title": "For Rockport Harbor, The Look of a Winner", "body_text": "It did not take long for someone to give Rockport Harbor the nickname Smarty II. With the same trainer and the same jockey and two easy victories at Philadelphia Park that were reminiscent of Smarty Jones's early campaign, the comparisons were inevitable. That may be a lot to ask of a young horse who entered yesterday's Nashua Stakes at Aqueduct with only two lifetime victories over soft competition, but, so far, Rockport Harbor is having little trouble living up to the hype. Ten months after Smarty Jones tried open-stakes company for the first time, winning the Jan. 3 Count Fleet at Aqueduct, Rockport Harbor made a smashing stakes debut in the Grade III Nashua Stakes, winning by six-and-a-quarter lengths under jockey Stewart Elliott. Rockport Harbor, a gray colt, broke alertly and quickly gained the lead without much urging from Elliott. After he shook off a mild bid from the second choice, Defer, on the turn, Rockport Harbor galloped through the Aqueduct stretch as Elliott looked in vain over his shoulder for challengers. The final time for a mile run over a fast track was 1:36.67. ''He's still just 2, but so far he has done everything we've asked, just like Smarty did,'' Elliott said. ''Still, he has a long way to go. Whether he's as good as Smarty Jones, we'll just have to wait and find out.'' If nothing else, Rockport Harbor was good enough to win a graded stakes over a handful of horses with respectable credentials. Smarty Jones, who was retired after he came up short in his bid for the Triple Crown in the Belmont Stakes, did not win a graded race until he won the April 10 Arkansas Derby in his fifth lifetime start. ''I was really impressed,'' said Rockport Harbor's trainer, John Servis. ''This was a good test for him. There were some nice horses in here. The way he did it, to me, was very impressive.'' Rockport Harbor is owned by Rick Porter, a car dealer like Roy Chapman, the co-owner of Smarty Jones. But there are as many differences between the two horses as there are similarities. Unlike Smarty Jones, Rockport Harbor, named for the Maine town where Porter has a vacation home, did not sneak up on anybody. Rockport Harbor, a well-bred horse by the 1995 Breeders' Cup Juvenile winner, Unbridled's Song, cost $470,000 at the Keeneland September yearling sales and has been the subject of attention by the news media since his first start. This is not exactly the people's horse. ''It's a lot of pressure for me and John,'' Porter said. ''As long as he keeps winning, I don't mind it. With the comparisons to Smarty Jones and all the hype, I'd have felt pretty bad if he fell on his face today and performed badly. But he proved something today. Only time will tell how good he is.'' Servis said the two horses share the trait of raw ability, but little else. ''There's not a lot of comparisons between the two, other than they're both fast,'' he said. ''This horse has a stride that covers so much ground and he goes so easily. Smarty Jones was a high-energy horse. He wanted to be a race horse and he wanted to be the best he could be. This one just has a lot of natural talent.'' Rockport Harbor paid $3.80 for $2 to win yesterday. Servis had planned to run Rockport Harbor in the Nov. 27 Remsen Stakes at Aqueduct, but has changed his mind. Instead, Rockport Harbor will be given a brief rest before he starts a 3-year-old campaign that will begin at Oaklawn Park. He is tentatively scheduled to run at Oaklawn in the Southwest, Rebel and Arkansas Derby, three races Smarty Jones swept last year before winning the Kentucky Derby. Should everything go according to plan, Rockport Harbor, Servis and Elliott will team up for another assault on the Triple Crown. ''I realize we have a long way to go and every race will mean a bigger test,'' Porter said. ''Today, he proved he can go long. He's got a great trainer, who has proven he knows how to get it done. He did it, after all, not so long ago.'' HORSE RACING"}