{"title": "G.I., 64, Pleads Guilty to Desertion From Duty in Korea in '65", "body_text": "A United States Army judge on Wednesday accepted two guilty pleas by Charles Robert Jenkins, a 64-year-old United States sergeant who disappeared into the mists of the cold war almost 40 years ago. Breaking a silence of decades, Sergeant Jenkins's North Carolina drawl filled a military courtroom here as he pleaded guilty to charges of desertion to North Korea and of aiding the enemy. But he pleaded not guilty to encouraging American soldiers to desert and encouraging disloyalty. The judge accepted the pleas, and the latter two charges were dropped. Wearing his olive green uniform, Sergeant Jenkins testified about his desertion and years of privation in North Korea. ''I no longer wanted to be in the military; I just wanted to go home,'' he said of his learning just after his Christmas 1964 home leave that his unit was to be sent to Vietnam. ''I knew Vietnam was combat, jungle warfare,'' he said in response to a question from the presiding Army judge, Col. Denise Vowell. ''I had never been in the jungle in my life. How could I lead soldiers?'' Asked what he feared in Vietnam, Sergeant Jenkins said simply that as a platoon leader it ''would be very easy to get killed.'' For 10 days, he said, he mulled over trying to walk across the heavily fortified Demilitarized Zone to North Korea. He testified that he had believed that the North Koreans would simply hand him to ''Russia,'' where he had planned to contact the American Embassy in Moscow, and eventually make his way home. ''I didn't know North Korea was going to keep me,'' he said. Living in North Korea until last July, Sergeant Jenkins surrendered here on Sept. 11. Although some World War II-era soldiers are still listed as absent without leave, no suspected deserter has surrendered or been captured after this much time on the run. Around 2 a.m. on Jan. 5, 1965, he said, he made his move on a night patrol. He instructed his platoon to stay behind, while he went ahead to see if a road in the Demilitarized Zone was safe. Once out of sight of his soldiers, he tied to the barrel of his M-14 rifle a white T-shirt he had brought to signal peaceful intentions to North Korean soldiers. In his testimony, he jumped to 1980. In passing, he referred to the intervening 15 years as ones of living with three other American defectors in simple peasant houses without water or electricity. Sergeant Jenkins has said one of the Americans is still alive in Pyongyang. His life changed, he said, when he was introduced to the woman who was to become his wife, Hitomi Soga, a Japanese nursing student who had been kidnapped from a Japanese island in 1978 because North Korea needed Japanese teachers for a spy school. ''Our mutual hatred for North Korea brought us together,'' he said. After their marriage, he was asked to teach English at a North Korean military academy. ''If you refuse in North Korea, you are wasting your time,'' he said. ''You are going to do it anyway. I learned that a long time ago.'' Later Wednesday, prosecution witnesses were scheduled to be heard."}