{"title": "THE 2004 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- South; For the president, some easy victories, and a crucial close one in Florida.", "body_text": "ALABAMA President Bush, who won this state by 14 percentage points in 2000, carried it again by a similar margin, and Senator Richard C. Shelby easily held his seat for the Republican Party, winning a fourth term. All six House incumbents who had opponents won by sizable margins -- even Jo Bonner, a one-term Republican, who encountered an unexpectedly strong early showing by Judy Belk, a losing candidate in 2002. Mr. Shelby's Democratic challenger, Wayne Sowell, a Social Security administrator, was the first black person ever to be nominated as a Senate candidate by a major party in Alabama. ARKANSAS As expected, Senator Blanche Lincoln, the Democratic incumbent, easily defeated State Senator Jim Holt, the Republican nominee. Ms. Lincoln's victory seemed largely assured after Gov. Mike Huckabee and Asa Hutchinson, an official with the Department of Homeland Security, decided not to challenge her. Ms. Lincoln, a freshman senator, had a $6 million campaign fund; her opponent raised less than $100,000. Representatives Vic Snyder and Marion Berry, both Democrats, and John Boozman, a Republican, won re-election as well. Representative Mike Ross, a Democrat, ran unopposed. Voters also passed a referendum banning same-sex marriage. FLORIDA President Bush won Florida, the state that went his way four years ago after a 36-day recount and a Supreme Court decision. Betty Castor, a former state education commissioner, and Mel Martinez, former secretary of housing and urban development, were in a tight Senate race for the seat being vacated by Bob Graham, a Democrat. Ms. Castor, the Democratic nominee, and Mr. Martinez, the Republican, attacked each other's records. She said he was a pawn of the White House. He said her campaign had been ''taken over and run by a very extreme left-wing feminist group.'' In southwest Florida, Connie Mack IV, a Republican who is the son of a former United States senator, won the House seat previously held by Porter J. Goss, the new director of central intelligence. In southeast Florida, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a Democrat, won the House seat held by Peter Deutsch, who failed in a Senate bid. GEORGIA President Bush easily defeated Senator Kerry; it was the third presidential race in a row in which Georgians backed the Republican. Voters also approved an amendment banning same-sex marriage, although the debate is likely to linger, with talk of a possible challenge to the amendment's legality. In the race to succeed Senator Zell Miller, a Democrat who harshly criticized Mr. Kerry at the Republican National Convention and did not seek re-election, the Republican candidate, Johnny Isakson, defeated Denise Majette, a Democrat. Each is vacating a Congressional seat. In a heavily contested Congressional race, John Barrow, a Democrat, unseated Representative Max Burns, a Republican, in a district drawn to favor Democratic candidates. KENTUCKY Senator Jim Bunning, a Republican, barely held off a late charge by State Senator Daniel Mongiardo, a Democrat, to win a second term. Mr. Bunning, 73, a Baseball Hall of Fame pitcher, was coasting to re-election a few weeks ago. But the race tightened after he failed to appear at a debate and admitted ignorance of recent news from Iraq, playing into Democrats' questions about his physical and mental health. Republicans said Dr. Mongiardo had no record to speak of, and questioned his masculinity. For the House, Geoff Davis, a Republican businessman, defeated Nick Clooney, a Democrat who is a former television reporter and the father of the actor George Clooney. Voters overwhelmingly approved a ban on same-sex marriage. LOUISIANA The retirement of Senator John B. Breaux, a moderate Democrat, opened up a Senate seat in Louisiana, and Republicans claimed it last night. With 99 percent of precincts reporting, the lone Republican candidate, Representative David Vitter, had 51 percent of the vote, far more than his three major Democratic challengers. Mr. Vitter needs to hold that majority to avoid a runoff election. President Bush easily won Louisiana's nine electoral votes. In the Third Congressional District, a packed race ended with no winner. Representative Billy Tauzin, a Republican, was retiring and trying to pass his seat on to his son, Billy Tauzin III. He won a plurality, but fell far short of winning a majority. MISSISSIPPI All of the House incumbents retained their seats, putting Bennie Thompson and Gene Taylor, both Democrats, back in office along with two Republicans, Charles W. Pickering Jr. and Roger Wicker. No Democratic candidate challenged either Republican. A state ballot measure banning same-sex marriage easily passed. Gov. Haley Barbour had expressed concern that people would not understand the initiative and vote against it in error. Mr. Barbour said that he hoped the bill would be approved by at least 80 percent. As expected, President Bush easily carried the state, giving him six electoral votes. In 2000, he captured 57.6 percent of the vote in the state. NORTH CAROLINA As President Bush won easily in North Carolina, Republicans picked up a Senate seat left open by the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, John Edwards. The Republican candidate, Representative Richard M. Burr, won with a five-point lead over his Democratic opponent, Erskine Bowles, President Bill Clinton's former chief of staff. Mr. Bowles, who lost a Senate race to Elizabeth Dole in 2002, had a 10-point lead in the polls months ago. That lead dwindled as Mr. Burr ran advertisements saying Mr. Bowles was ''just like Bill Clinton.'' A Democratic bid to pick up a House seat in the state's 11th District failed as Patsy Keever lost to the incumbent Republican, Charlie Taylor, by nine points. Party control in the state's 12 other Congressional districts did not change hands. Gov. Michael F. Easley, a Democrat, fended off a strong challenge from former State Senator Patrick Ballantine. The race focused on taxes, state deficits and Mr. Easley's proposal to set up a state-run lottery to finance education. OKLAHOMA In one of the nation's fiercest Senate contests, former Representative Tom Coburn, a Republican, won handily over Representative Brad Carson to succeed Senator Don Nickles, a Republican who is retiring. Dr. Coburn, an iconoclastic fiscal conservative, campaigned as a foe of deficits and federal spending, even spending on his home state. This is a reliably Republican state, but Dr. Coburn was hurt by accusations that he had sterilized an under-age patient against her will, and committed Medicaid fraud in that case. For a while, that charge helped Mr. Carson pull even in polls, but he fell behind in the final weeks. Republicans and anti-tax groups attacked Mr. Carson as an ineffectual liberal, and he tried hard to distance himself from Senator Kerry, who lost badly here. By more than three to one, voters approved a ban on same-sex marriage. They also voted, by a wide margin, to create a state lottery. SOUTH CAROLINA In one of the nation's most heated Senate races, Jim DeMint, a three-term Republican representative, fought hard to defeat the Democrat, Inez Tenenbaum. Ms. Tenenbaum, the state education chief, had surged to become a formidable opponent. Each candidate spent a record sum to attract many of the same voters to replace Senator Ernest F. Hollings, the Democrat who was retiring. Ms. Tenenbaum tried to distance herself from the national Democratic Party in the decidedly pro-Bush state. Mr. DeMint, a conservative, challenged Ms. Tenenbaum's claim that she was independent. Many called the Democratic label Ms. Tenenbaum's greatest weakness, particularly among voters aligned with the Bush ticket. Mr. DeMint's victory means the state has an all-Republican Senate delegation for the first time since Reconstruction. TENNESSEE Tennessee, which has picked the winner in the last nine presidential elections, gave its 11 electoral votes to President Bush, who also captured the state over its native son, Al Gore, in 2000. Nine incumbents in the House, five Democrats and four Republicans, were re-elected, including the Democrat Lincoln Davis, who defeated Janice Bowling in a rematch. TEXAS With a majority of precincts reporting, it was clear that the controversial redistricting by the House majority leader, Tom DeLay, paid off for Republicans. The new boundaries pitted four House incumbents against one another, and two Democrats, Charles W. Stenholm and Martin Frost, lost their seats to Randy Neugebauer and Pete Sessions, respectively. Representative Max Sandlin, a Democrat from East Texas, lost to a former judge, Louis Gohmert, and a Democratic incumbent, Nick Lampson, battled against his Republican challenger, Ted Poe, in a Houston district. Chet Edwards, a Democratic incumbent representing north-central Texas who is more accustomed to neck-and-neck races, was struggling to hold a slight lead over his Republican opponent, State Representative Arlene Wohlgemuth. With tallies in from 76 percent of the precincts, President Bush overwhelmingly won his home state. VIRGINIA For the Second District House seat, State Delegate Thelma Drake, a senior Republican in the Statehouse, beat David Ashe, a lawyer and Marine veteran. In the Ninth, Representative Rick Boucher, an 11-term Democratic incumbent, held off a vigorous challenge by Kevin Triplett, an ex-Nascar executive."}