{"title": "THE 2004 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- Northeast; A traditionally Democratic region tilts heavily to Kerry, a native son.", "body_text": "CONNECTICUT In the most watched race in the state, Representative Christopher Shays, a nine-term incumbent Republican, pulled off a victory over Diane Farrell, the first selectwoman of Westport, in Fairfield County. She had criticized his support of the war in Iraq. Senator Kerry won the state's seven electoral votes by a healthy margin. He may have been helped by the overwhelming support voters gave to Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat, who easily defeated his Republican challenger, Jack Orchulli, the former business partner of the fashion designer Michael Kors. The brutal race for the Second District, in the eastern half of the state, had been billed as one of the country's closest, but the incumbent Republican, Representative Rob Simmons, easily defeated Jim Sullivan, a former Norwich councilman. DELAWARE Senator Kerry won in Delaware, where Gov. Ruth Ann Minner, a Democrat, was elected to a second term. She defeated Bill Lee, a former Superior Court judge, who was the Republican candidate. Governor Minner and Mr. Lee sparred over education, the environment and the state's prison system, with the governor drawing criticism for her handling of a case in whicha prison counselor was held hostage and raped. The state's lone member of the House, Representative Michael N. Castle, a Republican who is a former governor, was easily re-elected, beating Paul Donnelly, a Democrat. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA Marion Barry, the former mayor caught on tape by the F.B.I. smoking crack in 1990, was elected to the City Council with 96 percent of the vote. There were few nationally notable races in this historically Democratic city, which voted overwhelmingly for Senator Kerry for president. Its Delegate to Congress, Eleanor Holmes Norton, was easily re-elected. MAINE Maine was once listed as a battleground state, but Senator Kerry carried it without much difficulty, just as Democrats did in the three previous presidential elections. Slightly more than half of voters interviewed at the polls disapproved of President Bush's job performance, and they voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Kerry. The state's two House members, Tom Allen and Michael H. Michaud, both Democrats, won re-election. Mr. Michaud, in a huge northern Maine district, had the harder race. Supporters of a ballot proposal to limit property taxes conceded defeat. Opponents said the measure would have forced cuts in school budgets and municipal services. MARYLAND Maryland's senator and its eight representatives were re-elected. Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, a Democrat and a popular 18-year incumbent, won by 30 percentage points over her Republican challenger, State Senator E.J. Pipkin. Their campaigns echoed themes of the presidential race. Mr. Pipkin, who spent hundreds of thousands of dollars of his own money on TV ads, attacked Ms. Mikulski on her votes to raise taxes and to oppose weapons programs. Ms. Mikulski said Mr. Pipkin was inexperienced and never strayed from party positions. MASSACHUSETTS There were no surprises in Massachusetts, with Senator Kerry easily winning over voters in his home state. All 10 representatives seeking re-election, Democrats one and all, also coasted to victory. Several ran unopposed. For months, there had been talk of the possibility of a special election to fill Mr. Kerry's Senate seat if he won. Several members of the Congressional delegation have expressed interest in the position and started raising money. NEW HAMPSHIRE While voter surveys had given Senator Kerry a strong lead, he had just 51 percent of the vote with 90 percent of the precincts reporting. President Bush had 49 percent, and Ralph Nader the rest. While this state, once all but guaranteed for Republicans, had seemed to be favoring Mr. Kerry in polls, New Hampshire has consistently been viewed as a battleground; in 2000, Mr. Bush beat Al Gore by just 1.3 percent, about 7,000 votes. The race for governor remained heavily contested. With 92 percent of the votes counted, the Democrat, John Lynch, was ahead by a little over two percentage points. Mr. Lynch surprised some in his fierce campaign against Gov. Craig Benson, a Republican who was criticized after some of his top people stepped down facing charges of ethical misconduct. Still, a victory by Mr. Lynch would be considered an upset in a state that has always given an incumbent a second term. Senator Judd Gregg, a Republican, easily defeated the Democrat challenger, Doris Haddock, also known as Granny D. NEW JERSEY Senator Kerry won decisively in New Jersey, despite opinion polls that showed the state's voters almost evenly divided in the final weeks of the campaign. Democrats also carried the state in the presidential elections of 1992, 1996 and 2000. Most New Jersey voters who were interviewed as they left the polls said the war in Iraq was going badly, and four-fifths of those voters said they had cast their ballots for Mr. Kerry. All 13 House members were re-elected. NEW YORK Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat, won a second term by a record margin, with more than 70 percent of the vote. But the state's hottest race was in the Buffalo area, where Representative Jack Quinn's retirement gave Democrats one of their best chances to pick up a House seat. With nearly all precincts reporting, the contest between Assemblyman Brian Higgins, a Democrat, and Nancy A. Naples, the Republican Erie County comptroller, was too close to call. Mr. Higgins attacked Ms. Naples for opposing a higher minimum wage and favoring White House trade policy. She called him a tax-raising liberal. In the race for another open House seat in western New York, State Senator John R. Kuhl Jr., a Republican, defeated Samara Barend, a Democrat. On Long Island's eastern end, Representative Timothy H. Bishop, a first-term Democrat in a swing district, won against William Manger, a Republican. PENNSYLVANIA As Senator Kerry easily won Pennsylvania, a major battleground state, Senator Arlen Specter overcame an early scare to win a fifth term in a race with Representative Joe Hoeffel, a three-term Democrat. Mr. Specter had narrowly defeated Representative Pat Toomey in the Republican primary, a race that left Mr. Toomey's district in Allentown and Bethlehem to a spirited showdown in which Charles Dent, a Republican state senator, dispatched the Democratic challenger, Joe Driscoll, a real estate consultant. In Mr. Hoeffel's district, which includes upscale suburbs north of Philadelphia, Allyson Schwartz, a Democratic state senator, defeated Melissa Brown, a Republican eye surgeon, in her second try for the seat. In the state's other open seat, a suburban Philadelphia district represented by the retiring six-term Republican, Jim Greenwood, Michael Fitzpatrick held the seat for Republicans against Virginia Schrader, a Democrat. One incumbent was in danger of losing: Jim Gerlach, a Republican from a swing district east of Philadelphia, was trailing Lois Murphy, a county attorney, with a third of the ballot to be counted. RHODE ISLAND Rhode Island's four electoral votes went to Senator Kerry; the state has voted Democratic in every election since 1984, when it went for Ronald Reagan. There was no race for Senate or governor, but two Democratic representatives, including Patrick J. Kennedy, the youngest son of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, faced challenges. Mr. Kennedy easily defeated Dave Rogers, a former Navy SEAL who lost to Mr. Kennedy two years ago. Representative Jim Langevin also won. VERMONT The governor of Vermont, Jim Douglas, a Republican, was able to hold onto his office after facing a tough challenge from Peter Clavelle, the Democratic mayor of Burlington. In other races in Vermont, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Democrat, easily won re-election, as did Congressman Bernard Sanders, an independent. In a series of debates, Mr. Douglas and Mr. Clavelle showed distinct philosophies on governing, even as they traded bitter jibes. Mr. Douglas focused his campaign on business issues, while Mr. Clavelle remained associated with the liberal policies of the Progressive Party, which he had belonged to before running for governor. In the last days of the campaign, one of the major disputes centered on Mr. Clavelle's charge that 1,000 children in the state lost health care coverage while Mr. Douglas was in office. However, Mr. Douglas is relatively popular and is considered a moderate Republican by national standards. For instance, he has openly criticized President Bush's record on the environment. In the end, he won despite overwhelming statewide support for Senator Kerry. Mr. Douglas has been involved in Vermont politics since 1972, when he was elected to the State Legislature. WEST VIRGINIA Once considered a safe state for the Democratic presidential nominee, West Virginia voted to give President Bush a second term as nearly a third of Democratic voters spurned Senator Kerry. This time, the margin was nearly twice what it was in 2000. In the race for governor, Joe Manchin, a Democrat and the secretary of state, defeated Monty Warner, a Republican and a former Army officer, and Jesse Johnson, the Mountain Party candidate. Mr. Manchin lost the governor's race in 1996. The Congressional delegation, as expected, remained the same, with the two Democratic Representatives, Alan B. Mollohan and Nick J. Rahall II, winning easily. So did the state's only House Republican, Shelley Moore Capito, whose victory was the closest of the three."}