{"title": "Justice Lets Ohio Ruling On Monitors at Polls Stand", "body_text": "The United States Supreme Court declined early on Tuesday morning to accept an invitation to intervene in the 2004 presidential election. Later on Tuesday, courts in Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania issued rulings on two of the most contested legal issues in this year's election: who, aside from voters and officials, may be present in polling places and who can vote by provisional ballot. The Supreme Court ruling was by Justice John Paul Stevens, who is designated to hear emergency appeals from the federal appeals court in Cincinnati. Justice Stevens refused to suspend a decision issued hours before by the appeals court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The appeals court ruled late on Monday night that Ohio Republicans could enter polling places to challenge voters there. The appellate decision reversed rulings from two Ohio district judges that had barred the challengers. The plaintiffs in the two lawsuits, Justice Stevens wrote, ''allege that Ohio Republicans plan to send hundreds of challengers into predominantly African-American neighborhoods to mount indiscriminate challenges at polling places, which they claim will cause voter intimidation and inordinate delays in voting.'' Justice Steven called the accusations ''undoubtedly serious.'' But he said time was too short for the court to render a considered decision. ''Moreover,'' he added, ''I have faith that the elected officials and numerous election volunteers on the ground will carry out their responsibilities in a way that will allow qualified voters to cast their ballots.'' That ruling left intact a 2-to-1 decision of the Sixth Circuit. In the same court on Tuesday, a different panel, also divided 2 to 1, reversed a trial court ruling excluding the news media from polling places in Ohio. ''Democracies,'' the two judges in the majority wrote, ''die behind closed doors.'' A third federal appellate ruling, from a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, in Philadelphia, limited the kinds of voter challenges that Republicans in Ohio could make. That ruling, issued late Monday night, was overturned Tuesday afternoon by the full Third Circuit. The later decision effectively overturned a ruling Monday by a federal judge, Dickinson R. Debevoise in Newark, who ordered the Republican National Committee not to challenge Ohio voters using a list prepared by local Republicans. The list is based on mail returned as undeliverable. Judge Debevoise based his order on a 1982 decision that prohibited the Republican National Committee from using so-called ballot security measures to frustrate efforts by minorities to vote. The judge ruled that the 1982 decision, a consent order entered as part of a settlement in New Jersey, was national in scope and remained in effect. New lawsuits were also filed Tuesday. In Ohio, a voter, Sarah White, filed suit in federal court in Toledo to challenge a directive from the secretary of state, J. Kenneth Blackwell. Mr. Blackwell said voters who had requested but not received absentee ballots could not vote by provisional ballot. The ruling was required, he said, to prevent double voting. In that case, Federal District Judge David A. Katz ruled in Ms. White's favor on Tuesday afternoon and ordered Mr. Blackwell to advise election officials that they must issue provisional ballots to all who appear at a polling place and claim to be eligible to vote. Another voter, Audrey J. Schering, filed suit in federal court in Cincinnati over how provisional ballots were to be counted. Ms. Schering said Mr. Blackwell had failed to issue clear and consistent directions to officials in Ohio's 88 counties, inconsistencies prohibited by the United States Supreme Court's 2000 decision in Bush v. Gore. In Florida, a judge in Seminole County ordered Democrats to stop ''further intimidation'' of Republican monitors. The poll watcher who sued, J. Thomas Monk, objected to a letter from the Democratic National Committee. ''Should a challenger make a knowingly false challenge,'' the Oct. 28 letter said, ''that person could be subject to criminal prosecution.'' THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE VOTING PROCESS -- LEGAL ISSUES"}