{"title": "A Move To Change The Balance", "body_text": "For years, the State Senate district in the northern Bronx had been the domain of Guy J. Velella, the borough's Republican Party chairman and a power broker who was convicted of felony bribery charges earlier this year. But that seat, which includes portions of Westchester County, is now moving into the Democratic column after yesterday's election of Jeffrey Klein, an assemblyman who defeated two other candidates in one of the most closely watched contests in New York State. It was one of two Senate seats the Democrats had counted on in this year's elections in their quest to win control of the Senate over the next four years. The Republicans have long held a majority of several seats. In the other closely watched Senate contest, the Democrats also won a hard-fought race yesterday in a district in the Bronx and East Harlem, where State Senator Olga A. Mendez, a 26-year incumbent who became a Republican two years ago, suffered a lopsided defeat to City Councilman Jos\u00e9 Marco Serrano. The seat, formerly held by Mr. Velella, had been targeted by the Democrats virtually from the moment Mr. Velella resigned in May. In the end, the party poured its resources into the races, adding it to the more than $1 million Mr. Klein had already raised from his effort to form a campaign for the race for attorney general in 2006. The state's Republican leaders placed their support behind John Fleming, a former police detective who coordinated security operations for Rudolph W. Giuliani when Mr. Giuliani was mayor. Mr. Fleming received strong support from Mr. Giuliani and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, in a district that elected Mr. Velella to the Legislature for nearly three decades. But their support came only after a contentious Republican primary. In that race, last September, the Republican leaders strongly supported Assemblyman Stephen B. Kaufman, a Democrat, who ran in both the Democratic and Republican primaries. After losing the Democratic primary to Mr. Klein and the Republican primary to Mr. Fleming, Mr. Kaufman remained in the race, running on the Conservative and Independence Party lines. As it turned out, Mr. Kaufman, who has represented a portion of the Senate district for years, was a formidable third-party candidate. He campaigned vigorously, even though he had lost the Democratic and Republican primaries. With 91 percent of the vote counted in unofficial results reported by The Associated Press, Mr. Klein had 51 percent of the vote, with Mr. Fleming receiving 37 percent and Mr. Kaufman getting 12 percent. While it is a Democratic area, the 34th State Senate District, which is shaped like a horseshoe and stretches around the northern Bronx and includes parts of Westchester County, is moderate to conservative in its political leanings. It voted overwhelmingly for Gov. George E. Pataki two years ago, and split evenly two years earlier in the United States Senate contest between Hillary Rodham Clinton and her Republican challenger, Rick A. Lazio. Mr. Velella won the district handily through much of his career. The race in East Harlem was a crushing defeat for Ms. Mendez, who had once achieved a status that made her something of a political icon. Ms. Mendez, 79, was the first Puerto Rican woman elected to a legislature on the United States mainland. Until she switched parties two years ago, she had been a lifelong Democrat. She explained the move by saying that becoming a member of the majority party would help her deliver more for her district. But in the end, Mr. Serrano, 32, won overwhelmingly, as a result of several factors. For one thing, the district was radically redrawn after the 2000 census. It is no longer largely East Harlem and northern Manhattan but now includes a large swath of the south and west Bronx that account for more than 60 percent of the district's voters. Also, Mr. Serrano benefited from widespread name recognition, particularly in the Bronx, where his father, United States Representative Jos\u00e9 E. Serrano, has won re-election overwhelmingly for years. With 100 percent of the votes counted, Jos\u00e9 Marco Serrano received 81 percent of the vote, with Ms. Mendez winning 18 percent. In an interview last night, Mr. Serrano said that his victory reflected the fact that voters resented Ms. Mendez siding with the Republican majority in the State Senate. ''The Republican Party has misunderstood the needs of communities like these, communities of color and poor communities,'' he said. ''And unless we get an increase in the minimum wage and funds for school, we will continue to live in an unfavorable situation.'' THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE AREA -- STATE SENATE"}