{"title": "Among Family and Friends, A Confident Bush Waits", "body_text": "President Bush spent an optimistic Tuesday evening watching election returns at the White House, but the cheer in the Bush camp turned into anger in the early hours of Wednesday when Senator John Kerry refused to concede the big prize of Ohio and the president found himself in limbo. At 12:45 a.m., after Fox News and then NBC called Ohio for Mr. Bush, senior staff members watching election returns in the Roosevelt Room hurried over to the White House residence, evidently to put finishing touches on the president's victory speech and prepare for his arrival at an election night party at the Ronald Reagan building on Pennsylvania Avenue. Then Senator John Edwards, the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, made a public appearance in Boston saying the Democrats would fight on, and the senior staff and the president were left hunkered down in the White House residence at 2:45 am. It had been a see-saw day and night since early Tuesday, when surveys of voters leaving polling sites had showed Senator John Kerry beating Mr. Bush nationally and in crucial swing states. Karl Rove, the president's chief political adviser, had been so concerned about the polls that he spent part of his afternoon sending e-mail messages to influential Republicans, telling them to disregard the polls, which he said were not an accurate barometer. Mr. Rove noted that those polls were wrong in 2000, when they had Al Gore beating Mr. Bush by three or four percentage points. By shortly after 9:30 p.m., the president had a small group of reporters and photographers up to record what appeared to be a relaxed family tableau. ''Why don't you all take the rest of the night off,'' Mr. Bush told reporters. He said: ''We're very upbeat, thank you. I believe I will win.'' While Mr. Bush entertained some 30 family members and friends at a buffet dinner upstairs in the residence, Mr. Rove was downstairs in what he jokingly described as his ''bat cave,'' a temporary office set up in the old family dining room on the state floor of the White House to monitor returns. He had links there to Bush campaign headquarters in Arlington, Va., and the offices of the Republican National Committee on Capitol Hill. Mr. Rove shuttled among the dining room, the upstairs family quarters and the Roosevelt Room in the West Wing, where senior staff members and longtime aides like Karen P. Hughes had dinner and watched the returns on television. Several times in the course of Tuesday evening, Mr. Bush's father was spotted wandering from the family quarters into the West Wing to greet staff members and perhaps walk off the tension. ''I'm feeling good now,'' he said to reporters around 10:30 p.m. as he headed from the West Wing to the colonnade that borders the Rose Garden. Mr. Bush began his day Tuesday in light rain at the Volunteer Fire Department in Crawford, Tex., where he voted with his wife and twin daughters. His eyes were puffy from a 19-hour, seven-stop, six-state campaign swing the day before, and he appeared tired, calm and wistful as he spoke to reporters after voting. ''It's such a wonderful feeling to vote,'' Mr. Bush said. ''This election is in the hands of the people, and I feel very comfortable about that. The people know where I stand. I've enjoyed this campaign. It's been a fantastic experience traveling our country, talking about what I believe and where I'm going to lead this country for four more years. You know, there's just something refreshing about giving it your all and then saying the people will make the right decision. And I believe I'm going to win.'' From Texas, Mr. Bush flew for one last stop in Ohio, where he dropped in on the state's Bush-Cheney headquarters in Columbus to thank campaign workers. Mr. Bush took the phone from a volunteer, Mick Turner, who was making calls urging voters to the polls and said: ''Julie. This is President Bush calling. How are you? No, I promise you it's me.'' Mr. Bush added: ''I'm proud to have your support. I appreciate you taking my phone call. Thank you so very much.'' Mr. Bush then hung up and said to reporters, ''1-0.'' Vice President Dick Cheney ended his campaign on Monday with a new accusation against Mr. Kerry, saying the Democratic candidate consulted polls before deciding how to react to the Osama bin Laden tape on Friday. The Kerry campaign denied the assertion, saying the vice president offered no evidence. Mr. Cheney spoke in Colorado Springs, a heavily Republican community, after an overnight trip to Hawaii. Mr. Bush was back at the White House by midafternoon Tuesday, when he worked out on an elliptical trainer. His sister, Doro, two of his brothers, Neil and Marvin, and his mother were also at the White House. A dozen years ago, Mr. Bush was at the White House the night his father lost to Bill Clinton, and for much of his presidency he has been determined to avoid a similar defeat. At a rally in Albuquerque on Monday night, Mr. Rove was asked how Mr. Bush would compensate in the Electoral College if he lost Ohio. ''We're winning Ohio,'' Mr. Rove relied. ''And we will win Ohio.'' Then he repeated it like a mantra, or a wish: ''We will win Ohio. We will win Ohio. We will win Ohio. We will win Ohio. We will win Ohio.'' THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE PRESIDENCY -- THE PRESIDENT'S VIEW"}