{"title": "Former Judge Leads an 11-Way Race for Mayor", "body_text": "With 90 percent of the votes counted, Jerramiah Healy, a former municipal court judge, was leading a field of 10 other candidates Tuesday night in a race to replace Glenn D. Cunningham, the city's first black mayor, who died of a heart attack in May. With 166 of 184 precincts reporting, Mr. Healy had received 28 percent of the vote. His closest competitor, Assemblyman Louis Manzo, had received 24 percent. Acting Mayor L. Harvey Smith had 22 percent. Mr. Healy declared victory shortly after 10 p.m. at a post-election party in an Italian restaurant here and said he planned to focus on decreasing crime by adding new officers and instituting a gun buyback program. ''We have to unify the city,'' he said. The victory capped a campaign that lived up to this city's reputation for pugnacious politics. Mr. Healy's election in the race came less than month after a picture of him, naked and slumped over his porch after a night of drinking, was posted on the Internet. Another candidate, Steve Lipski, had his campaign recreational vehicle pelted with eggs. Nearly every campaign complained that dozens, if not hundreds, of their signs had been painted over or torn down. And a handful of disputes involving minority voters arose at polling places, requiring judicial intervention. As the winner of the special election, Mr. Healy will serve out the rest of Mr. Cunningham's term, which ends next May. Another election will be held then for a four-year term. Many of the runners-up in the mayoral contest said they were considering another run in May, though Mr. Healy's election was widely seen as a precursor to victory. Bret D. Schundler, who won a special election for mayor in 1992 with only 18 percent of the vote, went on to serve two terms before running unsuccessfully for governor in 2001. The first complaints of election shenanigans appeared around lunchtime. Mr. Smith's campaign complained that minority voters were being denied provisional ballots. Lawyers for his campaign went to Judge Mark Baber of Hudson County Superior Court, who directed the superintendent of elections to make sure that poll workers understood the rules and to pass out ballots when appropriate. In another Hudson County race, a former Assembly speaker, Joseph Doria, was elected to fill the rest of the term of Mr. Cunningham's other elected post, state senator. Mr. Doria, the mayor of Bayonne, was selected as the interim senator earlier this year by the Hudson County Democratic Committee. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE NEW YORK REGION -- JERSEY CITY"}