{"title": "A Lively Don Quixote Fantasy Of Shadow Puppets and Stilts", "body_text": "This fervid, otherworldly production by Stacy Klein's Double Edge Theater company, now making its New York debut at La MaMa Annex (the company is based on a farm in Ashfield, Mass.), is a series of masterfully juggled off-kilter skits that bring the life of the imagination to the stage. Don't be misled by the title: the show has nothing to do with Dostoevsky's ''Possessed'' or with Witold Gombrowicz's ''Possessed,'' both of which often appear in the theater. (A retelling of Gombrowicz's tale opens next week at the Ohio Theater in SoHo, with the Pig Iron Theater troupe's ''Hell Meets Henry Halfway.'') ''The Unpossessed'' is a theater tribute to Cervantes's ''Don Quixote,'' which itself was conceived 400 years ago as a collection of skits lampooning the popular chivalric ballads of that era. Ms. Klein creates indelible images. As the play opens, two actors, doubling as props, tower 15 feet above the stage, standing atop rolling ladders whose metal rungs are hidden beneath billowing skirts. The actors slowly wheel their extended arms, which hold long flags. The eye gradually makes sense of the scene: they are human windmills. On the floor between them lies a pile of books representing the heap of romances that fed Don Quixote's delirium. Sancho Panza (Matthew Glassman) hovers above the books, clinging to a sash hanging from the ceiling. As a voice cries out, ''Sancho!,'' a hand rises from the books, startling the audience. The hand is followed by the Knight of the Sorrowful Countenance himself (Carlos Uriona), who emerges, grey-bearded, demented and inspired, scattering the fictions. The spell cast by this opening scene lasts throughout the hour that follows. Signal episodes from Cervantes's epic are recreated by six performers, who change personas, walk on stilts, swing above the audience on silken sashes, stage a shadow puppet play and roll across the stage in cow troughs (a circular metal frame that is filled with hay on farms, used here to heighten the vertiginous mood). The mayhem is accompanied by a haunting score, performed by the actors, who play the mandolin, guitar, violin, cello and accordion. Richard Newman, in a number of roles (he is also one of the windmills) displays striking energy. If there is a familiar image that might help to understand the effect of this visual poetry, it is the scene in Fellini's ''Strada'' in which Gelsomina, wandering the streets of a grubby village, stands transfixed, watching a man in wings walk above the crowd on a tightrope, without a net. But Ms. Klein doesn't count Fellini among her influences; she is a disciple of the Polish director Jerzy Grotowski, and means to blend his unreined trope-hopping with the acrobatic spectacle of South American street theater. Poetic, bathetic, punning and perverse, her show is a rough jumble of wonderment. Cervantes's goal with ''Don Quixote'' was to mock idealism for its futility, while at the same time creating a monument to it; that is also the goal of this production. ''The Unpossessed'' is at La MaMa Annex, 74A East Fourth Street in the East Village, through Nov. 7. THEATER REVIEW"}