{"title": "More Than Rain Dampens The Mood at Kerry's Rally", "body_text": "It was eerily quiet here on Copley Square at 1 a.m. Wednesday. The drizzle that had dripped intermittently throughout the night had turned to a strong, steady rain. Scores of empty white folding chairs in the front section were dotted with droplets, a roll of blue Kerry-Edwards stickers on one a soggy mess. Umbrellas and Red Sox caps dotted the small, silent crowd that remained at what was supposed to be Senator John Kerry's victory party. A moment before, when Tom Brokaw had announced via twin Jumbotrons that President Bush had clinched Ohio's 21 electoral votes and it was ''all but impossible'' for Mr. Kerry to win the presidency, there had been no booing. Al Franken, the Democratic comic, muttered an oath under his breath. A faint cry of ''Let's go, Kerry'' from behind the four-story platform of lights and speakers quickly faded out. One Kerry volunteer pointed a finger at another and said determinedly, ''Not over.'' But her friend just shook his head. Then, for a full five minutes, there was silence. NBC News was flicked off, and a graphic of a waving flag filled the enormous screens. A man walked onto the stage, said nothing, and walked off again. Finally, nine young members of the Greater Massachusetts Gospel Choir strode to the microphones. First one woman, in a proud, bold a capella, then the chorus, and then, even some in the crowd, belted out ''God Bless America'' into the bitter, rainy night. The sadness came suddenly and stubbornly to the Kerry crowd. All day, Mr. Kerry and his aides had seemed calm and confident, with whispers of transition talk pervading the air. A half-hour after Mr. Brokaw and his colleagues at competing networks called the race for Mr. Bush, Mr. Kerry's campaign manager said the Democrats would not concede the race, noting that all of Ohio's ballots had yet to be counted. A young advance man in a red and blue hockey shirt with ''Kerry'' on the back stalked the media center, saying, ''It's not over yet. We're going to win.'' At 1:50 a.m., the Jumbotrons had been switched to CNN, whose anchor, Wolf Blitzer, described Ohio as a ''green state'' -- too close to call for Mr. Bush or Mr. Kerry, and the Democrats here seemed reincarnated, letting out a collective whoop. Just before 2:30 a.m., Mr. Kerry's running mate, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, appeared on Copley Square and spoke for exactly one minute. ''It's been a long night,'' he told the crowd, as if it needed telling, ''but we've waited four years for this victory, we can wait one more night.'' Mr. Kerry himself remained at his home in Beacon Hill, where he had been watching returns with his wife since wrapping up four hours of 38 satellite interviews with television stations in swing states earlier that afternoon. It had been a nostalgic, sentimental day for the Democratic presidential nominee, starting with a tearful tribute to his traveling staff, then an emotional trip to the polls with his adult daughters, followed by a traditional Election Day lunch. As he has every time his name has been on a ballot since 1982, Mr. Kerry washed down a dozen littlenecks with dark ale at the historic Union Oyster House near Quincy Market. There was just a bigger mob around the beige wood bar, a lot more at stake. ''He said, 'You didn't think I was going to miss this, did you?''' said Chris Greeley, who was his driver at that inaugural Election Day lunch 22 years ago and who has sat on the next stool ever since. ''If it's possible to relax with 300 people across the street and 40 cameras, he was. For a guy in one of the closest elections in years, he wanted to be there, and wasn't in a rush to go. He savored it.'' But Mr. Kerry quickly snapped back into campaign mode upon meeting a couple from Michigan down the bar. ''Did you guys vote before you left?'' he asked. ''Otherwise I'm sending you back there.'' Earlier, at the polling place at the historic statehouse downtown, Mr. Kerry folded his 6-foot-4 frame over to put his face perhaps five inches from his own name on the ballot, borrowed his wife's reading glasses, then slowly, deliberately filled in five ovals with a black felt-tip pen. ''I don't think anyone can anticipate what it's like,'' he said afterward, ''seeing your name on the ballot for president.'' Flying here from Lacrosse, Wis., Mr. Kerry presented his traveling staff with engraved silver picture frames, and was jaunty as he handed out red fleece jackets to reporters in the entourage, suggesting to various reporters that they try bigger sizes. He then gave seven journalists who had followed him the farthest silver candy dishes engraved to memorialize the ''Champagne Lounge,'' as they called the back of the buses they rode through Iowa last winter. Asked what he most wanted to do on Wednesday morning, Mr. Kerry said, ''I don't know, honestly.'' ''I mean, I don't know how late tonight will be,'' he explained. ''Got to roll with the punches.'' In an understatement, he added, ''Hopefully have a few meetings of importance.'' The athletic Mr. Kerry said he was ''so intent on getting back in shape,'' and planned, regardless of the results, to take a bike ride on Wednesday morning. ''I cannot tell you how excited I am to sleep in my own bed,'' he said. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE PRESIDENCY -- THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE"}