{"title": "In Suburbia, Voters Agree to Spend $255 Million to Preserve Dwindling Open Space", "body_text": "Voters on Long Island overwhelmingly approved four referendums yesterday to buy and preserve some of its dwindling open space. Approved better than two to one, the referendums in four ballot propositions authorized bonds totaling $255 million, the largest amount ever submitted in a single election on the Island. Environmental, business and civic groups as well as elected officials and editorials all supported the initiatives. Some homeowners, weary of burdensome local taxes, were opposed. Supporters said that the various propositions would raise taxes by $7 to $39 a year for a typical house. With more than 95 percent of the votes counted in Suffolk County, both a countywide proposal and one in Brookhaven were winning more than two to one. In Nassau, with about 80 percent of the vote counted, the countywide proposal was winning three to one, and a proposal in Oyster Bay was ahead more than two to one. Since the 1970's, Suffolk has spent nearly $400 million on preservation, a concept it pioneered. It now has an additional $75 million to buy more of the sprawling county's farmland and other open space. A novel feature of Suffolk's latest proposal would foster more moderately priced housing by allowing for the transfer of development rights from preserved space to downtowns and commercial areas where denser building would be allowed. Neighboring Nassau County, smaller than Suffolk and mostly built up, is new to the preservation effort with its first-ever countywide referendum for open space, for $50 million. Brookhaven voters approved a $100 million proposal to preserve space in their town, which has by far the most land of any town on the Island. Two years ago voters there approved a $20 million bond issue for preservation. Voters in Oyster Bay authorized a $30 million bond issue for their town, which has most of Nassau's remaining open space. The money is to replenish a fund approved four years ago for open space preservation. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE AREA: LONG ISLAND"}