{"title": "Democrats Gain Seats, But G.O.P. Retains Senate And Most Incumbents Win", "body_text": "Democrats captured at least two seats from Republicans in the New York State Senate yesterday and ran close in two other races, putting them nearly halfway toward their long-term goal of wresting control of that house after decades of Republican dominance. The gains by Democrats were not enough to end the state's unique brand of divided government, in which Democrats have controlled the State Assembly and Republicans have controlled the Senate without interruption for three decades. Indeed, the two men who control the Legislature, State Senator Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican representing Rensselaer County and part of Saratoga, and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, were easily re-elected: Mr. Bruno faced no opponent, and Mr. Silver faced Carrie Sackett, a largely invisible opponent from a minor party. Democrats reclaimed the seat they lost when State Senator Olga A. Mendez of East Harlem left their party and became a Republican. With 98 percent of precincts reporting, Jos\u00e9 M. Serrano, a Democratic city councilman from the Bronx, was beating Ms. Mendez with more than 80 percent of the vote, according to an unofficial tally by The Associated Press. In Brooklyn, Democrats held on to the seat that opened up when Senator Seymour P. Lachman retired by electing Diane J. Savino. Democrats won a hard-fought contest to pick up the seat that was vacated when former State Senator Guy J. Velella, a Bronx Republican, pleaded guilty to a bribery-related charge this year. Jeffrey D. Klein, a Democratic Assemblyman in the Bronx, beat two other candidates, including John Fleming, a former police officer. And two Republican senators were locked in close races to hold on to their seats. In Westchester, Senator Nicholas A. Spano, a Republican seeking his 10th term, found himself facing an unexpectedly strong challenge from Andrea Stewart-Cousins, a Democratic county legislator. With 90 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Spano was leading by 553 votes. In the Syracuse area, Senator Nancy Larraine Hoffmann, a 10-term incumbent who switched parties to join the Senate's Republican majority in 1998, was losing by 1,000 votes to her Democratic challenger, David J. Valesky, with all but one of the 263 precincts reporting. She said the election would be decided by absentee ballots. The Democrats benefited from the coattails of John Kerry's presidential campaign, which drove up Democratic turnout in New York; from growing dissatisfaction with state government; and from the fact that registered Democrats now outnumber registered Republicans in New York by more than five to three. And in a local race with statewide implications, P. David Soares claimed victory in his bid to become the Albany district attorney. Mr. Soares ran on a platform against the state's Rockefeller-era drug laws. He ran on the Working Families Party line and the Democratic line, unseating a sitting Democratic district attorney and dealing a severe embarrassment to the vestiges of the once-omnipotent Albany Democratic machine. Only a handful of races across the state were competitive yesterday, but in Albany, where incremental change is seen as monumental, it is considered a very big deal when even a few seats change hands. Still, in a year in which the ways of the State Legislature came in for widespread criticism and led to a new round of calls for the reform of state government, a vast majority of state lawmakers were re-elected easily. Because each house of the Legislature is given the power to draw districts to benefit its incumbents, and each party funnels lots of money to help incumbents who are at risk, there are rarely many competitive races for the Legislature. Sometimes the opposition stays home altogether: a third of the state's lawmakers faced no major-party opposition yesterday, and a quarter of them faced no opponents at all. On the surface, it hardly seemed like an auspicious year for incumbents to seek re-election. The Legislature failed to pass the state budget on time for the 20th year in a row, and it marked the dubious milestone by passing the latest budget in state history. The Legislature and Gov. George E. Pataki failed to comply with a court order requiring them to fix New York City's public schools. Their inability to reach a compromise on school financing led them to send the matter back to court. And once again, despite their agreement that the state's Rockefeller-era drug laws are too harsh, they failed to agree how far they should go in softening them. Even the creaky, aging voting machines that most New Yorkers used yesterday were a testament to Albany's gridlock. The state failed to agree on how to spend federal money that was earmarked to modernize the election system. But while the state's voters have long expressed anger at Albany, they have historically supported their local lawmakers. That tension was very much in evidence in Westchester, where Senator Spano faced an unexpectedly tough challenge from Andrea Stewart-Cousins, a Democratic county legislator. Sharon O'Donnell, a community activist and mother of three in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., who voted for Ms. Stewart-Cousins, said she was tired of the gridlock among state lawmakers. ''It seems like it's very bureaucratic in Albany, and there's not enough action,'' she said. ''Spano has had his turn, and she seems like a breath of fresh air.'' But Tom Donohoe, a retired New York City schoolteacher, said Mr. Spano was not to blame for the morass in Albany and praised his work on behalf of the district. ''It's a structural problem that is very difficult to do much about,'' he said after casting his vote for Mr. Spano. ''There were similar gridlocks in the 19th century. It's all called politics.'' The least democratic county in the state may very well be Queens, where nearly three-quarters of the borough's representatives in Albany faced no opponents in yesterday's election. ''District lines are drawn to protect the incumbent and protect his re-election,'' said Dick Dadey, the executive director of the Citizens Union, a nonprofit civic group. ''This is the biggest problem facing the reform Albany movement to ensure competitive elections. In New York, the Board of Elections does a reasonably good job in making sure that the votes of citizens count, but the real question is: Do they matter?'' Even lawmakers who might be expected to be vulnerable this year faced little or no opposition. Roger L. Green, who resigned his Assembly seat this year after he pleaded guilty to billing the state for false travel expenses, faced only token opposition. His Brooklyn district was redrawn in 2002 to exclude the home of his main opponent in past elections, as the State Assembly refused to release its own report condemning his actions. And Assemblyman Adam Clayton Powell IV, who was named in two police investigations this year involving separate allegations of rape but was never charged with any crimes, faced no opponents in his East Harlem district. ''An obvious question is whether reform has any traction,'' Gerald Benjamin, a professor of political science who is dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at the State University at New Paltz, said in an e-mail. ''There may be some straws in the wind in the election, but it will be the post-election follow-up that is crucial.'' THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE AREA -- ALBANY"}