{"title": "Shays Survives Brutal Fight in Connecticut", "body_text": "Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut beat back a ferocious challenge yesterday by his Democratic opponent after one of the most bitter and closely watched Congressional campaigns in the New York City region. With 44 percent of the precincts reporting, the vote was 52 percent for Mr. Shays and 48 percent for his opponent, Diane Farrell, a first selectwoman of the town of Westport. Mrs. Farrell conceded about 10:30 p.m. ''I knew she would be formidable,'' Mr. Shays said, addressing supporters at his headquarters at the Norwalk Inn. ''But I said to my staff that we would win this race if we did a good job.'' In another contentious Connecticut race, Congressman Rob Simmons, a Republican, defeated Jim Sullivan, a Democrat and former Norwich councilman, after an unexpectedly tough challenge. With 83 percent of the precincts reporting, Mr. Simmons had 56 percent, Mr. Sullivan 44 percent. The races were the most notable among several that the region's Congressional Republicans faced in a year when Democrats were hoping to capitalize on John Kerry's popularity in the New York City area. But in the end, all incumbents, Democrats and Republicans alike, appeared to have won re-election. In upstate New York, the two parties were battling last night to fill a vacancy in the 27th Congressional District, in the Buffalo area. Republicans picked up another vacant seat, in the 29th Congressional District, in the Southern Tier. On Staten Island, Representative Vito J. Fossella, the only Republican representing New York City in Congress, defeated a Democrat, Frank J. Barbaro, a former assemblyman, retired State Supreme Court justice and onetime mayoral candidate. With 78 percent of the precincts reporting, Mr. Fossella had 60 percent of the vote and Mr. Barbaro had 40 percent. Mr. Barbaro, 76, who is also a former longshoreman, put together a formidable collection of supporters, including labor unions. But Mr. Fossella, 39, is popular in his district. In New Jersey, another Republican incumbent, Representative Mike Ferguson, won decisively in the Seventh Congressional District, defeating a little-known Marine officer named Steve Brozak, a former Republican who had returned home from a tour of duty in Iraq saying he was disillusioned with his party. With 100 percent of the precincts reporting, Mr. Ferguson had 57 percent of the vote to Mr. Brozak's 41 percent. Mr. Brozak, who was given a prime-time speaking role during the Democratic National Convention in Boston, tried to tie Mr. Ferguson, a two-term incumbent, to the conservative Republican agenda in Washington, while Mr. Ferguson cast himself as a moderate. Mr. Brozak phoned Mr. Ferguson shortly before 10 p.m. to concede. The challenge in Connecticut against Mr. Shays, a moderate Republican, stirred national attention. He had become a fixture in state politics by representing the Fourth Congressional District for eight terms. By virtue of his 17 years in the House, where seniority equals power, he has been a prominent voice for his state at a time when power in Congress is concentrated largely in the hands of conservatives from other regions, like Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the majority leader. Mr. Shays managed to retain his seat over the years despite demographic shifts that have resulted in more registered Democrats than Republicans in the district, which is made up mostly of Fairfield County's affluent communities. Mr. Shays attracted Democratic support partly because he had cast himself as a moderate willing to defy the party's leadership on major issues, chief among them a federal law imposing new restrictions on campaign spending and contributions. But his Democratic opponent, Mrs. Farrell, proved to be a formidable challenger, primarily by using Mr. Shays's party affiliation against him and even invoking Mr. DeLay in her speeches and in debates. Specifically, Mrs. Farrell accused Mr. Shays of being far less moderate than he had made himself out to be, noting, among other things, that he had voted with his party 78 percent of the time. In Connecticut's other hard-fought race, Mr. Simmons had been seen as vulnerable. A two-term incumbent, he represents a district where Republicans make up less than one-quarter of the registered voters. A self-described Rockefeller Republican, Mr. Simmons stressed his moderate credentials, like his support for abortion rights, and barely mentioned President Bush, apparently mindful of Senator Kerry's immense popularity in the district. But national Democrats poured money and other resources into the district, sensing that Mr. Kerry's wide lead over Mr. Bush in polls in the district, reaching as high as 20 points, would provide possible coattails for Mr. Sullivan. The Democrat, in turn, hammered away at Mr. Simmons's ties to the president, noting that the congressman had voted in favor of the war in Iraq and had supported the Republican Party's policies on tax cuts and education. Democrats embarked on a vigorous effort to take the Congressional seat in the Buffalo area after the incumbent Republican, Jack Quinn, announced this year that he would not seek election to a seventh term. The Democratic candidate was Brian Higgins, a state assemblyman and a former Buffalo city councilman. The Republican candidate was Nancy A. Naples, the Erie County comptroller. The Republicans, who were caught off guard by Mr. Quinn's decision to retire, fought hard to keep the seat, though Democrats thought it was within their reach, given the large numbers of Democrats in the district. At 11:30 p.m., the race was too close to call. In the Southern Tier of New York, Democrats tried to win the seat vacated by the incumbent Republican congressman, Amo Houghton, in a district that is heavily Republican. In that race, John R. Kuhl Jr., a Republican who was member of the state Legislature, defeated a Democratic newcomer, Samara Barend, in a race that became particularly ugly after the disclosure of sealed divorce records alleging that Mr. Kuhl had once threatened his wife at gunpoint. With 97 percent of the precincts reporting, Mr. Kuhl had 51 percent and Ms. Barend had 41 percent. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE NEW YORK REGION -- U.S. HOUSE"}