{"title": "Schumer Returns to Senate, And With a Record Margin", "body_text": "United States Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat from Brooklyn, won re-election to a second term yesterday by an enormous margin, outpolling the former top vote-getter in the state, the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, and fueling talk that he may soon become a candidate for governor. Mr. Schumer defeated his opponents with more than 70 percent of the vote, a figure that exceeded Mr. Moynihan's record for a Senate election of 67 percent in 1988. His margin is doubly noteworthy because Mr. Moynihan's record was set in his run for a third term, after 12 years in the Senate, whereas Mr. Schumer is completing his first term. With 96 percent of the precincts reporting, Mr. Schumer had 71 percent, or 4.2 million votes, while the Republican, Assemblyman Howard D. Mills of Goshen in Orange County, had 24 percent, or 1.4 million votes. The Conservative Party candidate, Dr. Marilyn F. O'Grady, trailed far behind with 3 percent, or 198,000 votes. Aided by strong voter turnout, weak opposition and six years of relentless travel around the state, Mr. Schumer appeared to do well across the breadth of New York, winning majorities in rural, urban and suburban communities. He spent more than $13 million on his campaign, a large portion of which went to television and radio advertisements; he raised a total of $26 million for his campaign accounts, a huge amount that scared away many possible Republican challengers. Political strategists had said that it was unlikely that Mr. Schumer could outpoll Mr. Moynihan, if only because it has traditionally been easier for Irish or Italian Catholic candidates to draw cross-party votes upstate and in the suburbs. Mr. Schumer's triumph challenges the notion that a Jewish liberal Democrat from New York City would have trouble upstate and in the suburbs. Speaking to his supporters last night, Mr. Schumer said he felt honored by the size of his victory margin. ''Watching the returns roll in and reflecting on the past six years, I realized something tonight: it's more humbling to win by a lot than to win by a little,'' he said in his victory speech. ''When you win by a lot, it means that voters from all parts of the state, from every walk of life and from so many different philosophies and ideologies are putting their faith and trust in you. It is a huge responsibility.'' Despite Mr. Schumer's success, there was a sliver of good news for Mr. Schumer's main opponent, Mr. Mills, a three-term state legislator who gave up his seat in the Assembly to run. Mr. Mills, who phoned Mr. Schumer 20 minutes after the polls closed to concede defeat, managed a second-place finish, defying some predictions that he would fall to third place behind Dr. O'Grady. ''I congratulated him on his re-election to the United States Senate,'' Mr. Mills said in a concession speech to his supporters, drawing boos from the crowd, which he then sought to quiet. ''The senator was extremely gracious, for which I am grateful. I congratulate him and we wish him the best.'' For Dr. O'Grady, whose shoestring campaign drew interest if not votes, there was little to cheer, just a third-place drubbing. The Conservative Party had hoped to rattle the state Republicans and pull their leadership to the right, but in the end her poor showing may have undermined the Conservative Party's influence with Republican candidates in New York. During the campaign, Mr. Schumer said he was only focusing on serving in the Senate, but he has made it clear that his final decision about the future may rest on the outcome of the national vote. Should Democrats lose seats and influence in the Senate, Mr. Schumer might be more likely to run for governor in 2006, political strategists said. Over the course of his career in politics, which began when he was elected to the State Assembly when he was just 23 years old, Mr. Schumer has made it clear that he would like to serve as the state's chief executive. During his re-election bid, Mr. Schumer tried to bat away questions about his future, concerned that talk of running for governor might cut his margin of victory. Still, he could not bring himself to deny that he would run in two years. ''But I never say never,'' was how he responded when asked during one of two televised debates whether he would complete his second term. The day began early for the candidates. Mr. Mills went with his family to vote in Orange County, and Mr. Schumer went to vote at Public School 321 in Brooklyn. Before the results were clear, both sides tried to project a certain image yesterday -- Mr. Schumer one of hopeful uncertainty and Mr. Mills one of hope -- but they also gave away what they knew to be the likely outcome. By midday Mr. Schumer's aides were already planning a 15-county ''thank you'' tour, and Mr. Mills's aides had already contacted the Schumer campaign to ask how to phone the senator once the polls were closed. From the start, challenging Mr. Schumer, a popular incumbent, seemed an uphill battle. The state Republican Party struggled to find a candidate until Mr. Mills volunteered. In the end, the state party offered Mr. Mills moderate support, helped him broadcast some television advertisements upstate, and lent his campaign a Jeep to ride around New York. In the end, Mr. Mills said that at least he succeeded in getting to know party leaders around the state and, possibly, preparing for a future run for office. ''My friends,'' Mr. Mills said to his supporters last night, ''I can tell you this is not my last campaign.'' THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE NEW YORK REGION -- NEW YORK"}