{"title": "Inspired Band Of Worriers In Swing State", "body_text": "Karen Maguire, a freelance editor, creates day-by-day calendars with tear-off pages of quotations on gentle subjects like ''spiritual moments.'' In this turbulent autumn her passion has been the defeat of President Bush. For the first time in their lives, she and her husband, Barrie, posted a sign for a candidate, Senator John Kerry, in their front yard. They donated money to the Democrats and Mr. Maguire, 65, even went door-to-door, shyly canvassing his neighbors for MoveOn.org, a group working to defeat Mr. Bush. On Tuesday morning, Mrs. Maguire, 57, tore Nov. 1 off her Spiritual Moments calendar and discovered that for Election Day she had chosen a quotation from Margaret Mead: ''Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world.'' ''I was like, 'Yes!''' Mrs. Maguire said. '''Karen, you were good!''' By the time the networks started calling states for the candidates on Tuesday night, Mrs. Maguire was on the edge of her seat. ''It was exciting before,'' she said. ''Now I'm scared.'' ''Oh God,'' groaned Mr. Maguire, when NBC raised the prospect that Florida might remain undecided overnight. In the cozy television room, Mrs. Maguire's piano and Mr. Maguire's banjo and guitar sat silent while all eyes focused on the screen. When Dan Rather of CBS called Pennsylvania for Mr. Kerry at 10:50 p.m., the Maguires issued a simultaneous ''Phew.'' Mrs. Maguire pressed her left hand to her chest. ''That's such a relief,'' she said. ''I want Ohio next.'' Like other enclaves of ''blue'' voters across the country, this tranquil pocket of old houses and older trees just outside Philadelphia was shaken into action by the Bush presidency. People who had voted regularly but never ventured deeper into politics organized telephone trees and door-knocking, and on Tuesday they made sure Kerry supporters voted. ''I've never felt sick about the possibility my man might lose the election, like I do this time,'' said Mr. Maguire, an artist who runs a Web site offering graphic art for newspaper op-ed pages. Mr. Maguire said he feared that the United States under Mr. Bush was becoming ''a warlike country.'' He feared that Mr. Bush's religion was shaping his policies. And, at perhaps a deeper level, Mr. Maguire feared that Mr. Bush's re-election would mean that he himself was out of step with his country, a concern that struck him after he returned from a trip to Ireland. ''I came back and I thought, 'Is America going to encourage the kind of behavior that Bush and his people have done?''' he said. ''And if so, where am I coming from? What's wrong with me?'' Like others here, the Maguires say they do not even talk politics anymore with relatives or neighbors who support Mr. Bush; the conversations become too angry. Some Democrats -- though not the Maguires -- said they could not understand why anyone would support the president. Down Chestnut Avenue from the Maguires, Karen Stern, the woman who recruited Mr. Maguire for MoveOn.org, was handling a neighbor's baby as she lined up volunteers for her telephone tree. Mrs. Stern's husband, Moss Stern, 42, was at a polling place gathering names of people who had voted. On evenings and weekends, when he is home from his job as an advertising copywriter and can care for their 2-year-old son, Mrs. Stern goes to work as the director of a nonprofit. She has been volunteering hours she does not have to defeat Mr. Bush. ''I'm so tired I felt like I was going to throw up this morning,'' she said. But she said that, beyond merely voting, she had to get more involved this year. ''I'm very, very scared for the future,'' she said. ''I don't want my kid to be drafted into the 10th war we're in by the time he's 18.'' As they left their polling place at the Church of the Evangel this afternoon, the Maguires encountered a knot of Bush supporters, including a neighbor, Paul Cobaugh, 58. Mr. Cobaugh, whose wife, Carol, is a Republican committee member, calls himself ''anti-Democrat'' and believes that ''the major players in the Democrat Party border on socialist.'' Standing on a golden carpet of fallen maple leaves, Mr. Maguire, the painter, and Mr. Cobaugh, a salesman of paint-related products, chatted about the new addition the Maguires were building on their house. The neighbors said not a word about the subject on everyone's mind. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE VOTERS -- DEMOCRATIC PARTISANS"}