{"title": "Volunteers Dig Deep For Bush", "body_text": "Yes, they had already phoned 25,446 voters in this county in the past two days. Yes, they had already knocked on 9,796 doors. And yes, it was raining outside, a face-numbing blustery rain. But this was no time to rest, Brian Lundquist, a volunteer for President Bush here in Carver County, told a dozen bundled-up volunteer organizers gathered in an otherwise empty American Legion hall just after dawn on Election Day. ''We've got to get out there and do it all again,'' Mr. Lundquist declared. ''It won't mean anything if we don't win.'' So off raced the troops: Billy Cripe and his whole family, including his 14-month-old daughter, who rode in a knapsack on his back, marched through Chanhassen's subdivisions, knocked on doors, and hung leaflets about Mr. Bush on doorknobs -- sometimes on knobs that already held the very same brochure from some earlier marcher. On the other side of town, Sandy Johnson, who at 45 had never volunteered for a candidate before, spent the day at a desk with a phone, in a line of desks with phones, dialing likely Bush voters from Chanhassen, one after the last. Those who had not voted when she called before noon could expect a second call by dinner. In this swing state, one that was last captured by a Republican for president in 1972, Chanhassen is considered Republican turf. It is a reliably red blob inside a closely contested state, which meant on Tuesday that the town's Republicans fought with numbers and a sheer intensity and focus that even they acknowledged they had never witnessed before. ''I have never seen anything like what happened here,'' said Craig Peterson, as he, Mr. Lundquist and a crowd of other Republicans waited anxiously for answers from a large television set inside the High Timber Lounge here. ''Never before have you seen this many people, this much effort, this much here leading up to tonight.'' It is hardly as if Republicans had struggled here before. In 2000, when Mr. Bush lost Minnesota, he won Carver County with 59 percent of the vote to Al Gore's 35 percent. Still, this election season brought a new brand of fight and organization to Chanhassen, a mix, it seemed, of many ingredients: one town's small reflection of the passion felt across the country, the raw possibility that it might somehow sway the whole lump of Minnesota's 10 electoral votes into the Bush camp, and the memory of something truly rare for this city of 23,000 (13,583 of them registered voters) -- a visit in October from Mr. Bush himself. ''Since he came here, he's been like a local candidate to us,'' said Tom Furlong, mayor of Chanhassen, a fast-growing Minneapolis suburb. ''And I have to say, for everything we've heard about all the anger over this election, I don't see the anger here. I see only enthusiasm.'' Outside the polling station at City Hall, even the two women who sat alone, shivering in lawn chairs, with ''MoveOn.org'' signs said that they had been ''mostly ignored'' -- not taunted -- by voters as they passed, even though one city official had questioned whether the women were too close to the polling place. ''Voters here don't say a lot; they just look over at you and walk the other way,'' said Cathy Molenaar, a MoveOn volunteer and John Kerry supporter whose family moved here a few months ago. ''They're all just very Minnesota-nice about it.'' Perhaps, but even beneath so much Midwestern gentleness, small signs of tension seeped through by Tuesday evening. A sloppy, handmade cardboard sign sat in one Democrat's yard: ''Bush People Steal Signs. Vote Kerry.'' And in a Republican's yard, a handmade sign noted only what was absent: ''27 Bush Signs Stolen.'' Sandy Schmall, a Bush supporter, said that her daughter, Maddy, 6, had been reluctant to trick-or-treat in the yards of those with Kerry signs. Still, people here pledged to go on, either way. Inside the High Timber as the night wore on, Mr. Peterson said he was not sure what the campaign's intensity might mean once it was all over. ''Getting so many more people out to vote is tremendous, but I don't want politics to be divisive.'' Just after dawn on Wednesday, in the same hall where the Republicans made plans on Tuesday, some of the same faces would be back, along with some others. The Chanhassen Rotary Club has its weekly meeting here, as usual. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE VOTERS -- REPUBLICAN PARTISANS"}