{"title": "In Crunch Time, Racing Door to Door", "body_text": "In the end, the presidential election came down to people like Cecil Edirisinghe and Shawn Wietbrock, slogging through damp leaves under a drizzly Wisconsin sky and rapping their cold knuckles on one dark door after another for President Bush. Or Kris Schultz, sitting behind a metal table in a bustling union office, shouting into cellphones as he directed squads of roving ''rapid response'' teams to specific addresses in an effort to squeeze every last vote out of Milwaukee's west side for Senator John Kerry. The story was much the same throughout the swing states in a race that produced some of the most extensive get-out-the-vote campaigns in memory. ''It's the biggest effort this state has ever seen, without question,'' said Jason Walsh, who was supervising Kerry volunteers at the Teamsters hall in St. Paul, Minn. ''People are incredibly energetic and enthusiastic. They really have the sense that this election could come down to a few hundred votes, and that those votes could be in Minnesota.'' As Mr. Walsh spoke, volunteers swarmed in and out of the hall, some grabbing apples or donuts along with their packets of leaflets. Organizers said more than 5,000 were working in the St. Paul area alone. Normally, such turnout efforts have been a Democratic specialty, and organizers in each of the swing states said this year's effort was the largest in the party's history. But Republicans said they, too, had put together the biggest efforts in their history and were confident they had matched or surpassed the Democratic push. Jayne Millerick, chairwoman of the New Hampshire Republican Party, said volunteers ''were in every county and just about every town in the state. I know that it's larger than anything we've ever done in the past.'' Both parties in New Hampshire said they had never mounted such an Election Day push. ''It's crazy, we've had so many people come out and volunteer,'' said Kathy Sullivan, chairwoman of the New Hampshire Democratic Party. ''We've got people doing everything: working at polls, making phone calls, doing visibility on streets, going and actually knocking on doors. At 7 p.m. when some of the polls close, they'll start calling people in other parts of the state where polls are open till 8 p.m.'' Democrats in Minnesota as in other swing states had planned their Election Day operation in cooperation with advocacy groups, especially labor unions. The Republican Party, however, had to run its get-out-the vote operation, here and across the nation, almost exclusively by itself. ''Democrats have outsourced their registration and get-out-the-vote effort,'' said Eric Bearse, a spokesman for the Republican Victory Committee in Minneapolis. ''Our effort is generated by volunteers who have signed up the with Bush-Cheney campaign.'' Mr. Bearse said he expected Republican volunteers to make close to 400,000 contacts on Tuesday, both by phone and in person. ''We are conceding no region and no voter in the state,'' he said. Even before the sun came up over New Mexico's Sandia Mountains on Tuesday, party coordinators, voting activists and civic agitators of all stripes were preparing for the final onslaught in what has been a multimillion dollar effort to drive people to the polls. Representatives of America Coming Together, the voter mobilization group that planned to spend $10 million nationally on Election Day, sent more than 1,000 volunteers to neighborhoods from Espanola to Las Cruces. New Mexico Republicans had been working their get-out-the-vote effort throughout the weekend, said Whitney Cheshire, a party spokeswoman, who estimated the party had made more than 100,000 contacts. In Iowa, Louis E. Smith climbed into his 1993 Acura Legend at 6:30 a.m. and set off to burn some bridges with his former political party. A retired bureau chief in the Iowa Department of Education, Mr. Smith has been a registered Republican all his life. But the war in Iraq had made him a Kerry supporter, and even persuaded him to volunteer for the Democratic effort. ''I feel like I'm a bit of a traitor,'' Mr. Smith said. ''But I have to deal with principles. I just feel that the Republican Party headed by George Bush is calamitous.'' Republican officials said they were convinced that their get-out-the-vote effort in Iowa would be at least as good as the Democrats', with or without Mr. Smith. ''We're looking at our voter turnout efforts in key precincts and they have heavy turnout and are doing very, very well,'' said Dave Roederer, chairman of the Bush-Cheney campaign in the state. In Wisconsin, Democrats said they had more than 80,000 volunteers through the course of the campaign and 200 staffers on the ground, as well as nearly 3,000 ward captains in each of the state's key Democratic districts. ''These people took it block by block and house by house,'' said Josh Hamilton, press secretary for the Kerry campaign in Milwaukee. ''This was the most sophisticated and extensive get-out-the-vote effort that this state has ever seen.'' Republicans, too, put on the most extensive push in their party's history in Wisconsin. On Election Day alone, they said there were 10,000 volunteers making phone calls, checking on voting locations and urging sluggish voters to head to the polls. When some Republican wards were showing low voter turnout by midafternoon, phone banks were cranked up and the vote count was back to where the party wanted it within hours. Mr. Edirisinghe, a Sri Lankan who lived in Russia and Germany before settling more than a decade ago on Milwaukee's elegant north shore, was among them. He had begun volunteering for the Bush campaign six months ago and took five days off work so he could work full time in the final five days. He had met Mr. Wietbrock only a few minutes before the two of them headed out of the Bush campaign office in West Allis, Wis., to work through a list of voters. ''If it turns out Kerry wins Wisconsin, I'd feel terrible if I had done nothing for President Bush,'' Mr. Edirisinghe said. ''And I heard that my brother-in-law was volunteering for Kerry, so I had to do something to balance that out.'' In east Cleveland, there was palpable excitement in the pelting rain at a storefront, where about 50 Kerry workers gathered before dawn to fan out into the areas minority neighborhoods. ''This is turnaround time,'' said Willie Dunn, 36, who was canvassing for the advocacy group Acorn. ''It's vote or die.'' Fifteen miles away, from an office tucked discreetly behind a suburban strip mall in Brecksville, Republican organizers dispatched volunteers to voters committed to President Bush. ''I'm a runner,'' said Ken Kling, a 63-year-old manufacturers representative from Brecksville, south of Cleveland. ''I pick up vote sheets, the list of people who have voted, from the precincts, and bring them back here so we can call the ones who haven't voted.'' On the streets of Minneapolis and St. Paul, which are traditionally Democratic, as well as in several Republican suburbs, Democratic volunteers were more visible than Republicans. They were passing out leaflets, knocking on doors and waving signs. ''I have watched the excitement level go up to a total fever pitch,'' said Amie Shindelar, a Kerry volunteer. Asked to compare what Kerry volunteers were doing with the Bush effort, she said she couldn't. ''I have no idea what they're doing,'' Ms. Shindelar said. ''We are in our own bubble.'' THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE VOTERS -- THE SWING STATES Correction:  November 18, 2004, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an article in some copies on Nov. 3 about last-minute efforts to get out the vote referred incorrectly to a supporter of John Kerry who directed ''rapid response'' teams in Milwaukee. The supporter, Kris Schultz, is a woman."}