{"title": "Energized Black Voters Flock to Polls to Back Kerry", "body_text": "Lynn Roberts needed no encouragement from the get-out-the-vote workers in her neighborhood at midmorning on Election Day. ''I want Bush out!'' she yelled across shady Huron Street before the workers, promoting Democratic candidates, could reach her. ''I already voted. I don't play around. This morning I was No.87.'' Ms. Roberts, who said she had checked the digital reader on the optical-scanning voting machine to see that hers was the 87th ballot cast at her precinct in Jacksonville on Tuesday, was just one of thousands of newly energized and mobilized blacks who voted here and across the country, including many in Florida who felt they had waited four years to have their votes counted at last. ''I'm satisfied,'' Ms. Roberts said. ''I saw my vote count.'' Nationwide, blacks went to the polls in large numbers and voted overwhelmingly for Senator John Kerry. They were prompted by vast get-out-the-vote drives, big increases in minority voter registration, new early voting periods and political passions kindled by issues from war to tax cuts. And still others saw themselves as part of a new crest in a civil rights struggle not yet complete four decades after federal voting rights laws were passed. ''I don't know why God chose Jacksonville to be a fighting ground, but this is about a movement,'' the Rev. R.L. Gundy told a group of voting rights workers crowded into a black church here on the eve of the election. ''It's not about abortion. It's not about gay rights. It's about human rights. It's about civil rights.'' Surveys by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International showed that nationally, blacks made up about 10 percent of voters at the polls. About 9 in 10 voted for Senator John Kerry, an overwhelming number that roughly mirrored the black turnout for Al Gore in 2000. The numbers for blacks appeared similar in Florida, where Election Day get-out-the-vote efforts in black neighborhoods sometimes found few people who needed getting out. ''A lot of people have already voted,'' said Maria Velazquez, a get-out-the-vote worker. To be sure, Florida and indeed much of the nation had fretted over the 2000 election. But for Jacksonville, a city aching to raise its national stature and recast itself as a culturally and economically sophisticated community, the lessons of 2000 included a reminder that it had not yet escaped its old Southern stratifications between blacks and whites. Four years ago, about 27,000 punch-card ballots were discarded here in Duval County, most because people had ''overvoted'' -- that is, voted for more than one candidate in the same race. About 40 percent of the ballots thrown out were cast in heavily black Democratic areas, a circumstance generating suspicion and accusations of racial bias that persisted until Tuesday. Some people here suggested that this Election Day could prove a measure of the city's ability to bridge its divides. ''The Super Bowl for football is in February,'' the interim Duval County elections supervisor, William Scheu, noting that the game would be played here in three months, said at a news conference on the eve of the election. ''The Super Bowl for our community coming together is tomorrow. And we hope and pray that will be the case.'' One crucial step toward easing tension may have been a technical one. In 2000, the names of presidential candidates were spread across two pages on the ballot, confusing some people who overvoted. But on Tuesday, with optical scanning, voters' ballots were instantly returned to them if they voted for two candidates in the same race. ''Overvotes can't happen,'' said Erin Moody, spokeswoman for the county elections office. Elsewhere across the country, the taint from 2000 may not have been as intense, but sentiment against President Bush was strong among blacks. In Pennsylvania, Dawn Hampton, 33, a temporary employee who works as an administrative assistant in North Philadelphia, said she felt misled by on the war in Iraq. ''Bush lied too much,'' Ms. Hampton said. ''I thought we were going in there because they had plans to kill us. They didn't find those weapons.'' She also took issue with the president on domestic issues. ''I thought he wanted to help everybody, talking about tax rebates the way he did,'' she said. ''It was all for the rich people.'' Keith Evans, a 34-year-old engineer with a large bakery in Philadelphia, said: ''Most black voters are going to respond to the loss of jobs. Look how many millions of jobs have been lost with Bush, how many jobs have been sent overseas. Companies are closing up. People don't have money to pay the bills.'' Some African-American voters in Cincinnati felt so passionate about the candidates and the issues in this election that many remained outside the polls for hours after voting. ''I could watch the results on TV,'' said Reginald Lucas, ''but I feel closer to things here.'' Denise Kelly, 45, said Senator Kerry offered the best plans for health care and job growth, the two issues she said most affected her family. ''I know too many people looking for jobs who are out of options,'' she said. ''The Republicans put them there. I want change.'' Al Cummings, a semiretired St. Louisian who said he tended to vote Democratic but did not do so exclusively, voted for Mr. Kerry on Tuesday because of the senator's positions on issues ranging from the war in Iraq to prescription drug costs. ''In fact,'' he said, ''I can't find one reason why one would vote for Bush.'' Though some polls had suggested that Mr. Bush might fare better with blacks, Ms. Roberts said the president had not earned their votes. Even as she praised the president for ''moral clarity,'' she dismissed the idea that Republicans could win black votes on the basis of social issues like abortion and same-sex marriage. ''That's not how you find them,'' Ms. Roberts said. ''You have to go into the community and talk to the people.'' THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE VOTING PROCESS -- THE MINORITY VOTE"}