{"title": "Bush Holds Comfortable Lead as Voting Problems of 2000 Do Not Reappear", "body_text": "For all the predictions that Election Day in Florida would be a repetition of what happened four years ago, with a razor-thin margin, chaos at the polls and a disputed outcome, the results here on Tuesday were pretty much the opposite. With more than 95 percent of precincts reporting, President Bush was leading Senator John Kerry by a comfortable margin after a relatively trouble-free day at the polls. The United States Senate race here remained too close to call near midnight, with Mel Martinez, the Republican, leading Betty Castor, the Democrat, by just 14,000 votes. Mr. Bush, whose brother, Jeb Bush, is governor here, was doing especially well in Orange County, which Al Gore won in 2000, and elsewhere in swing-vote-rich Central Florida. As Mr. Bush pulled ahead by several hundred thousand votes, both parties turned their focus to the record number of absentee ballots requested here, with Democrats hoping their fervent promotion of absentee voting this year would give Mr. Kerry a late advantage. In a lawsuit filed late Tuesday, the American Civil Liberties Union asked that voters who received absentee ballots at the last minute get more time to mail them back. Officials in Broward County, one of the state's most populous and heavily Democratic, mailed thousands of replacement ballots as late as Saturday after the originals never reached their destination. Palm Beach County also mailed several thousand ballots Saturday, and postal officials warned it was dangerously late. ''These are people who applied for absentee ballots weeks ago and got them today,'' said Howard Simon, executive director of the A.C.L.U. of Florida. ''If they were denied an opportunity to vote through no fault of their own but more through the negligence of election officials, that's a pretty serious problem.'' A preliminary hearing in the suit, filed in federal court in Miami, was scheduled for Wednesday morning. Absentee ballots have traditionally benefited Republican candidates in Florida, where late-arriving ballots from overseas helped seal Mr. Bush's victory in 2000. But many Democrats, still wary of voting machinery after the electoral chaos of 2000, chose absentee ballots over voting in person this year. One high-ranking Democratic official said the party was confident that absentee ballots would help Mr. Kerry more than Mr. Bush, though Republicans were putting stock in them, too. Republican Party officials warned that due to the large number of absentee ballots this year, some counties would probably not finish counting them on Election Night. More than 250,000 absentee ballots were mailed out in Miami-Dade and Broward counties alone. ''If these are not counted tonight, we will seem far behind,'' Mindy Tucker Fletcher, a senior adviser to the Republican Party in Florida, wrote in an e-mail message to reporters. She said that Miami-Dade County, one of the state's most populous, might not finish counting tens of thousands of absentee ballots until Thursday, leaving the winner here in question if the race was tight. Ms. Tucker Fletcher also circulated a list of problems Republican poll watchers encountered in Broward County, which has the state's highest number of registered voters and is heavily Democratic. The police threw several Republican poll watchers out of precincts there, she wrote, while lawyers for the Kerry campaign harassed others. Earlier in the day, Republicans won a court order in Seminole County blocking Democrats from circulating a letter to Republican poll workers warning that they could be prosecuted for challenging legal voters. On Monday night, the Democratic National Committee left Republican poll workers an automated phone message with a similar warning. Hayden Dempsey, a chief lawyer for the Bush campaign in Florida, said, ''Now we have a judge saying the same thing we are -- that they are engaging in harassing tactics.'' Over all, though, neither side voiced major complaints about Election Day proceedings. Lawyers for both parties reported far fewer challenges of voter eligibility than expected. Long lines at polling places seemed the most widespread problem. ''There hasn't been any major meltdown,'' Mr. Dempsey said. But he added that the Republican Party sued the Leon County elections supervisor on Tuesday for allowing Kerry campaign workers to approach voters within 50 feet of polling places, which is prohibited by state law. Mr. Dempsey said the problem had been pervasive statewide but would not be the basis for any broad postelection legal challenge. Democratic Party officials, who say they had not been aggressive enough in challenging Mr. Bush's razor-thin victory here in 2000, said a more combative approach this year prevented Republicans from challenging the eligibility of thousands of voters around the state. Democrats said they had heard of only 13 eligibility challenges by late afternoon. ''In 2000 they disenfranchised voters and this is a push back on our part,'' said Mitchell Berger, a top lawyer for the Kerry campaign here who worked for Al Gore in the recount. State Senator Ron Klein, a Democrat from Boca Raton, said some Democrats had complained that the touch-screen machines they used registered them as voting for Mr. Bush even though they had selected Mr. Kerry. But he said most were able to fix the problem before it was too late. In a wider problem, Mr. Klein said, many Palm Beach County residents who requested but never received absentee ballots were having a hard time casting regular ballots at the polls. He said such people needed only to sign an oath swearing they had not yet voted, but poll workers were insisting on checking with the county election supervisor, whose phone lines were constantly busy. ''It's a fairly substantial number of people,'' he said. Under state law, absentee ballots must arrive in a county elections office by 7 p.m. on Election Day to be counted. The A.C.L.U. lawsuit, filed in Federal District Court in Miami, sought to have every ballot counted that was postmarked by Nov. 2 and received by the appropriate elections supervisor within 10 days. That is the guideline for absentee ballots cast by Floridians living overseas. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE VOTING PROCESS -- FLORIDA"}