{"title": "Nader Fires a Parting Salvo at Democrats", "body_text": "With voting results indicating that his support was only a shadow of what it was four years ago, Ralph Nader on Tuesday again criticized Democrats who opposed his independent presidential bid and said his much-maligned campaign had called attention to national problems the major candidates ignored. ''I think what we've done is run a very honorable, clean campaign that has framed the important issues for the future of our country,'' Mr. Nader said. He said that his votes were taken as much from President Bush as from Senator John Kerry. For the last public appearance of his campaign, the 70-year-old Mr. Nader chose a public library basement in southeast Washington, where he complained that city officials wanted to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on a new baseball stadium while the impoverished neighborhood lacked even a supermarket. ''Stadiums instead of libraries! Stadiums instead of school renovation!'' Mr. Nader thundered. He said he was wrapping up his presidential campaign with a local matter to highlight his insistence that the two major candidates had ignored such critical issues as the persistence of poverty. The stadium plans are a ''microcosm'' that ''show the distorted priorities of our public officials,'' he said. Late on Tuesday night, Mr. Nader went to the National Press Club, where 100 campaign workers and supporters in a subdued mood strolled among red, white and blue balloons. He vowed to challenge in court the ''dirty tricks'' of Democratic operatives who had tried to keep him off the ballot. ''It's a campaign where you can't lose if you define winning as getting more people into the political sphere and exposing the corruption and rot of the system,'' he said. Figures on Tuesday showed that Mr. Nader was barely making a dent, his vote too small to make a difference in all but a couple of states, Iowa and Nevada, of the nearly three dozen in which his name was on the ballot. In the major swing state of Ohio, Mr. Nader was not a factor at all because Democratic challenges resulted in his name being taken off the ballot in late September. Such challenges were the particular target of Mr. Nader's ire. ''I underestimated the mendacity of the Democratic Party,'' he said. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE VOTERS -- THE INDEPENDENT"}