{"title": "For Chirac and Others, a Close Eye on Returns", "body_text": "President Jacques Chirac of France is a television ''zapper.'' So he would be flipping channels late into Tuesday evening and again very early Wednesday morning to monitor coverage of the American presidential election on the wide, flat-screen television in his inner office at the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace, two senior French officials said. Mr. Chirac, who gets up at 6 a.m., was also expected to tune in to French radio, as he does every morning, an aide said. Mr. Chirac has access to an array of channels, including CNN and the BBC, although he usually tunes in French, watching without the sound throughout much of his day. Several French channels have all-night coverage of the American elections, including the all-news LCI. France 3 planned to broadcast from a studio where it had built a replica of the Oval Office. Among its guests: Richard C. Holbrooke, the former American representative to the United Nations, and Felix G. Rohatyn, the former American ambassador to France, both staunch Kerry supporters. From his hospital bed in the southwestern Paris suburb of Clamart, Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, was also watching American election coverage on television. ''There is no politician in the world who is not following the elections,'' Mr. Arafat's economic adviser, Mohamed Rashid, told Agence France-Presse. ''And Arafat is following them because those elections have a huge impact on our situation. He will respect and deal with any American president. He said, 'I am not for Bush or Kerry, I am for God.''' Mr. Chirac, meanwhile, has not expressed a preference for the American presidency, but the strained relationship between him and President Bush because of France's opposition to the American-led war in Iraq is well-known. Officials in Mr. Chirac's entourage say that they have prepared ''very rough drafts'' of congratulations depending on the outcome, although they confess they are not at all clear how a victory of either candidate would affect French-American relations. The most pressing foreign policy issue for whoever is elected president must be the Israeli-Palestinian crisis, said a senior French official close to Mr. Chirac. ''Our big question is, Will there be a decision by the American president to restart a dialogue?'' the official said. ''This is what we expect from the new president. This is the cause of a lot of the anti-Western feeling in the world.'' -------------------- Berlusconi Is Guest of Putin MOSCOW, Nov. 2 (Agence France-Presse) -- Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president, and Silvio Berlusconi, the Italian prime minister, both close allies and unabashed backers of President Bush, were together Tuesday in Russia, where they would watch the American election unfold and prepare a Russia-Italy summit. Mr. Berlusconi arrived in Moscow and was to travel to Mr. Putin's country residence in the forest outside the capital, where a person close to the Kremlin said the two men would ''certainly'' take a look at American election reports during an informal dinner. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE MEDIA -- THE WORLD VIEW"}