{"title": "THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE MEDIA -- THE NETWORKS | The TV Watch; Anchors Make Call: Caution Carries the Day", "body_text": "On election night, news anchors repeated words like ''caution,'' and ''too close to call'' with the neutrally pleasant expression parents don when telling their children some, but not all, of the facts of life. On CBS, where Dan Rather proudly told viewers that ''I would rather be last than wrong,'' the most telling illustration on the electronic map was a big white splotch known as ''insufficient data.'' All the networks strained so hard to avoid repeating the early and flawed projections of 2000 that it was almost painful. Even though blogs and other Web sites on the Internet carried early voter survey results, the networks steered clear of even mentioning them. It was the wise, responsible thing to do (quite literally, politically correct), but it left the anchors without much to say. Like Kremlinologists studying the Politburo lined up at the Soviet May Day parade, viewers mostly had to squint and interpret clashing images of a tired President Bush returning to the White House lawn and an ebullient John Kerry feasting on chowder and clams at the Union Oyster House in Boston, and later, around 9:30, the president inviting television cameras into his residence to capture him surrounded by friends and family, with no corresponding sign of hospitality by his Democratic opponent. Fox News commentators cheered up after the president made his cameo appearance, but earlier they were quick to rush to conclusions, looking stunned and somber as they hinted that early voter surveys showed Mr. Kerry doing better than expected. ''I've spent all day telling Republican friends of mine that exit polls are usually right,'' William Kristol, the editor of The Weekly Standard, told Brit Hume just before 9 p.m. ''If the polls look bad, don't kid yourself.'' At that moment on ABC, Peter Jennings was reeling off a list of states and repeating, over and over as if taking the Fifth Amendment, ''We are not prepared to make a projection.'' Network caution was mocked on ''The Daily Show with Jon Stewart'' on Comedy Central. When Mr. Stewart asked Stephen Colbert, a mock political analyst, for his prediction, Mr. Colbert demurred. ''I'm waiting for every vote to be counted, recounted, notarized and personally embossed.'' And the less networks could say, the showier their election night sets. CNN rented the Nasdaq site in Times Square. NBC outdid the competition by calling its flamboyant tent city of sky booths and control rooms outside Rockefeller Center ''Democracy Plaza,'' an Orwellian name that conjured Moscow's Chausse Entuziastov (Highway of the Enthusiastic). So did NBC's giant electoral map, carved into the ice of the Rockefeller skating rink and shown with aerial helicopter cameras; workers armed with spray cans painted Republican states red and Democratic ones blue -- but not precipitously. There were no daring predictions or even compelling election night features, though on ''The ABC Evening News,'' Peter Jennings did a self-flagellating segment on how the networks goofed in 2000, including a mea culpa montage of ABC and other network bosses raising their hands before a Congressional committee like chastened tobacco industry executives. Without much to see on the screen, it was hard not to notice the psychodramas playing out just beyond view. On NBC, Tom Brokaw was abdicating his throne, a bit wistfully, to the slick, shiny Brian Williams. And his retirement was mourned on the show. ''Can I just say Tom, Tom, Tom,'' Senator John McCain said. ''Could I just say on behalf of millions who watched you for so many campaigns, thanks for the memories.'' Mr. Brokaw and NBC's top political analyst, Tim Russert, sat cozily together at an anchor desk, with Mr. Russert scratching numbers on a lap-sized electronic board with red and blue markers -- a reprise of the memorable moment late in 2000 when he pulled out a grease board and scrawled a dozen undecided states and their electoral votes, to show how conceivable it was for the nation to have a deadlocked electoral college. Mr. Williams was instead isolated on a separate set, surrounded by high-tech maps and flashing electronic boards. It may have been meant to look like an anchorman bullpen where the rookie warms up, but it mostly looked as if Mr. Williams was an annoying cousin relegated to the children's table at Thanksgiving. Mr. Jennings, weary after many hours of anchoring his network's digital news station, ''ABC News Now,'' at times got almost giddy. Saying he was going to be ''a little bit naughty,'' he had his staff highlight Florida bright yellow to demonstrate what Mr. Kerry would need to win if Florida went for Mr. Bush. ''We are not calling it,'' he warned, as if worried viewers would mistake yellow for red. Dan Rather, who so famously misspoke in 2000 (''If we say somebody's carried the state, you can take that to the bank. Book it!'') mostly seemed at war with himself. He kept undermining somber restraint with his trademark over-the-top metaphors. At one point, he made a strained pop culture reference: ''We may need Billy Crystal to 'Analyze This' before it's all over.'' At another, he exclaimed, ''It don't mean a thing if they don't get those swing states.'' And that was the boldest prediction of the night. The Networks"}