{"title": "Ohio Remains A Battleground As Late Voting Delays Count", "body_text": "For the second straight time, the state of the presidential election rested in the hands of a single state as election officials in Ohio worked well into Wednesday morning counting ballots after a frenzy of late voting kept the polls open late. President Bush seemed to hold a strong lead with 51 percent of the vote at 2 a.m., but Senator John Kerry's campaign refused to concede the state. ''It's been a long night, but we've waited four years for this victory,'' Senator John Edwards, the Democratic vice presidential nominee, said. ''We can wait one more night.'' Portending a Florida-like battle over each vote, Mr. Edwards said, ''John Kerry and I made a promise to the American people that in this election, every vote would count, every vote would be counted.'' Mr. Kerry's campaign manager, Mary Beth Cahill, sent an e-mail message to reporters about 1:30 a.m. saying that 250,000 votes had yet to be counted in Ohio. ''We believe when they are, John Kerry will win Ohio,'' she said. The uncertainty came at the end of a long day in which hundreds of thousands of voters waited in long lines, and polls were kept open well beyond closing times. The prospect of a drawn-out battle over provisional votes, absentee ballots and even a return to a recount of chads on punch-card voting machines loomed. As other states fell into familiar places, Ohio became the battleground of battlegrounds that it was billed to be throughout the election season. At the end of a long night of uncertainty, George Bush's issues and his ground game gave him a solid, if not quite decisive, lead. The candidates spent more time in the state than any other. Mr. Bush talked security, and Mr. Kerry hammered the economy. Mr. Bush sent an army of volunteers into suburban areas to turn out believers, and Mr. Kerry and his allies sent paid workers into the inner city to find new voters. In the end, both parties improved on their 2000 performance. Mr. Bush ran better in suburban areas in the southwest part of the state, and he picked up more votes in the rural areas that he had won decisively in 2000. Mr. Kerry reaped more votes than his strategists had hoped for in Cleveland, but did not get enough new voters in the big cities to overcome Mr. Bush's margins elsewhere. Democrats still hoped to overcome the lead and had begun to talk about provisional ballots, votes that are cast in the event of a dispute over registration. It was unclear how many provisional ballots were cast, but estimates ranged high enough to make a difference in the margin between the candidates. Turnout was strong everywhere. In spite of widespread rain and long lines, the secretary of state said turnout would be 5.8 million, or 73 percent, the highest since 1992. It was so heavy in parts of Columbus, Akron, Cleveland and even rural Knox County -- where hundreds of Kenyon College students waited six hours to vote -- that Democrats ordered volunteers to abandon phone banks and rush food, hot chocolate, chairs, umbrellas and radios to voters who had been waiting in the drenching rain. Republicans, who had proclaimed the superiority of their 72-hour strategy of intensive face-to-face contact in the last three days of the election, were deeply pleased with the results in their most important counties in the southwest part of the state and in the suburbs of Columbus. ''We've seen cases across the state where turnout may approach or even surpass records,'' said Jason Mauk, a spokesman for Ohio Republican Party. Even in the suburban areas of Cleveland, Republican turnout was high, party officials said. ''We had many precincts where we got every single one of our voters to vote,'' said Jeff Flint, a spokesman for the Cuyahoga County Republican Party. Democrats said their turnout strategy worked as well. ''In the major counties, we're hitting all our numbers,'' said Dan Trevas, a party spokesman. ''I can't figure out where the uncounted numbers are coming from.'' Mr. Kerry did extremely well in his political base in the Cleveland area, holding a lead of about 200,000 votes there, significantly better than Vice President Al Gore did in 2000. Mr. Kerry also performed well in Franklin County, which includes the state capital, Columbus. But the Democrats' improved performance in those two counties was not enough to close the gap with Mr. Bush, in large part because the Republicans squeezed additional votes out of their traditional political base in the northwest part of the state, the rural western border with Indiana and the conservative suburbs around Cincinnati, Republican strategists said. Many tiny rural counties, where Mr. Bush had won 65 percent or more of the vote in 2000, gave him even larger margins this year. Analysts attributed that improved turnout among conservatives in part to a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage that was on the ballot. ''The Republicans really galvanized their base with their get-out-the-vote operation, and they did so in large part by taking advantage of cultural issues that were important to Republicans voters,'' said Eric Rademacher, the director of the Ohio Poll at the University of Cincinnati. ''Clearly one of those issues was the constitutional amendment.'' Mr. Rademacher and other analysts said Mr. Bush's strong showing showed the Republicans had succeeded in moving the debate away from Mr. Kerry's strong suit: the weak economy and the high cost of health care. Early on Wednesday morning, Democrats declined to concede the race, arguing that there might be enough provisional ballots outstanding to tip the election to Mr. Kerry. Democrats contend, and many analysts agree, that the majority of those ballots were probably cast by Democrats, who tend to move more often than Republicans, and provisional ballots are more likely to be used by people whose addresses have changed. The question was: How many provisional ballots were cast? Secretary of State J. Kenneth Blackwell estimated that the number might be between 130,000 and 150,000. But Democrats asserted it could be as high as 250,000. Provisional ballots are held for 10 days after the election while election workers determine whether the person who cast them is eligible to vote. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE PRESIDENCY -- OHIO"}