{"title": "Electoral Vote Redistribution Is Defeated", "body_text": "Voters overwhelmingly rejected a ballot proposal on Tuesday that would have made Colorado the first state to replace the winner-take-all distribution of Electoral College votes in presidential elections with a proportional system based on the popular vote. The measure, Amendment 36, would have meant that candidates, beginning with this election, would split the state's nine electoral votes, so that a candidate receiving, say, 33 percent of the popular vote would also get one-third of the Electoral College total, or three votes. But preliminary tallies late on Tuesday showed that two-thirds of voters rejected the proposal. Analysts said it was clear from the results that no core constituency had emerged to fight for the amendment. ''It never gained any traction,'' said Floyd Ciruli, an independent public policy researcher in Denver. From the outset, Amendment 36 was caught in the crosswinds of the presidential race in Colorado. By deciding to apply it immediately, the drafters had insured that voters would largely weigh the measure in terms of whether it would help or hurt one or another of the presidential candidates. But residents also divided on whether one state's going alone into Electoral College reform would be an act of visionary wisdom or of utter folly that would make Colorado a political backwater. Opponents of the measure, basing their calculations on past presidential voting , said a winner here would hardly ever receive more than five electoral votes under proportional distribution, while a loser would rarely get fewer than four. What that meant, they argued, was that the incentive for future national politicians to care about Colorado, with the stakes perhaps only one or two votes either way, would disappear. Supporters said that the system of electing presidents was broken and that leadership in changing it must start somewhere. Voters who supported the proposal also had to run against a tide of negative newspaper editorials across the state and the arguments of many elected officials, including Gov. Bill Owens, a Republican. Both major party candidates in the closely fought United States Senate race also opposed the amendment. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: ISSUES -- COLORADO"}