{"title": "Constitutional Bans on Same-Sex Marriage Gain Widespread Support in 10 States", "body_text": "In a pointed vote against same-sex marriage, voters on Tuesday overwhelmingly supported amendments to their constitutions that would define marriage as between only a man and a woman. Voters in 10 of the 11 states with such initiatives on their ballots supported the amendments by wide margins. Gay-rights groups had expected to lose their battle at the ballot box and said the results were not surprising. ''We knew that we were underdogs in every state when we started out,'' said Matt Foreman, executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. ''Putting a basic right up for a popular vote is always wrong and always extraordinarily difficult to win.'' Social conservatives were expectedly pleased, though they were preparing for the possibility that gay-rights groups could pull off a lone victory here in Oregon. ''I think it is a real warning shot across the bow of politicians, but also a warning shot across the bow to activist judges,'' said Gary Bauer, chairman of the Campaign for Working Families, a political action committee that supported the constitutional amendments. Surveys of voters leaving polling places showed wide margins of support for the measures among voters of all backgrounds: white and black, young and older, those with high incomes and low incomes. Conservatives and those who attend church regularly were particularly supportive; better-educated voters were less likely to be. In Michigan and Ohio, Democrats and liberals tended to vote against the proposition. But in Arkansas, those who identified themselves as Democrats and liberals tended to vote for the proposition. Utah voters approved the amendment overwhelmingly. And in Ohio, voters heavily backed an amendment known as Issue 1, a measure some Republicans had criticized as potentially curtailing the rights and benefits of unmarried heterosexual couples. Late Tuesday, 62 percent of voters were supporting the amendment, with 67 percent of precincts reporting. ''Congratulations to the people of the state of Ohio,'' said Phil Burress, chairman of the Ohio Campaign to Protect Marriage, one of the measure's chief advocates. ''They have defined marriage as between one man and one woman and also protected its benefits.'' The potential cliffhanger in what was otherwise sure to be a sweep for opponents of same-sex marriage was the outcome of the vote here in Oregon, where polls closed at 11 p.m. Eastern time. The initiatives on the ballot in 11 states have drawn intense interest from both sides of the debate over gay marriage, which was catapulted into the nation's political discourse when the highest court of Massachusetts legalized same-sex marriages there in a ruling in February. Gay rights groups have spent millions of dollars to defeat the state constitutional amendments, while opponents of same-sex marriage mobilized armies of supporters through the nation's churches. Before Tuesday, voters in Missouri and Louisiana had approved such amendments, although last month a Louisiana state judge threw out that vote, saying the amendment was flawed because it also had the effect of banning civil unions. Mr. Burress said his organization, working with 17,000 churches, had distributed 2.5 million inserts for church bulletins on Sunday. ''We've been trying to say this all along,'' Mr. Burress said earlier Tuesday. ''The church is going to show up today.'' Referring to Ohio's large Amish population, he said: ''The Amish are telling us they never registered before, but they are this time. They have no phones, so nobody's polling them or calling them. It's just an incredible thing.'' But the outcome in Oregon was much harder to call. An independent poll conducted last week for The Oregonian, the state's largest newspaper, showed voters split on the issue: 50 percent in favor of the amendment to 46 percent opposed. Gay rights groups have focused much attention in the state, where a combination of fiercely independent voters who often reject government interference in personal affairs and a large gay population seemed to give the groups a reason to hold out for a victory. Of the 11 states with ballot initiatives seeking to ban same-sex marriages, Oregon is the only one where thousands of gay couples were married last spring, mirroring similar marriages in San Francisco. The San Francisco unions were nullified in August, but the Oregon Supreme Court has yet to rule on the legal status of 3,000 gay couples married in Multnomah County, which includes Portland. Many married gay couples spent much of Tuesday following the returns on television and on Web sites. LeAnn Loche, 37, a graphic designer who lives in Portland and was married last March to her partner of nine years, described Election Day as gut-wrenching. ''I'm just a mess today,'' said Ms. Loche, a volunteer for the No on Constitutional Amendment 36 movement. ''It's the weirdest thing to have politics be so incredibly personal,'' she said. ''This is about the possibility that half of the state of Oregon thinks that I don't deserve to be treated equally as the majority of the people in the state. And I just can't fathom that, because I don't see myself as a monster.'' THE 2004 ELECTIONS: ISSUES -- GAY MARRIAGE"}