{"title": "Ex-Budget Chief Unseats Democrat in Indiana; Democrats Retain North Carolina", "body_text": "Mitch Daniels, the White House budget director under President Bush, won the Indiana governor's race last night, defeating the Democratic incumbent, Joseph E. Kernan. Mr. Daniels, who also served in the Reagan White House and as a top executive at Eli Lilly & Company, deposed Mr. Kernan, who became governor in September 2003 after Gov. Frank O'Bannon died of a stroke. Mr. Kernan, a prisoner of war in Vietnam and the former mayor of South Bend, had made Mr. Daniels's service in the Bush White House a campaign issue, criticizing his opponent in speeches and advertisements. But he could not overcome Mr. Daniels's money or name recognition in a state won by Mr. Bush in 2000 and again this year. The national Republican party poured $2.6 million into the Indiana race on Mr. Daniels's behalf. Incumbent governors in Delaware, North Dakota, Vermont and North Carolina won re-election last night. The Democratic candidate in West Virginia kept the governor's office in the party's hands. Gov. Ruth Ann Minner of Delaware, a Democrat and the state's first female governor, held onto her office in an unexpectedly close race, while Gov. John Hoeven of North Dakota, a Republican, easily won a second term. Jim Douglas, the moderate Republican governor of Vermont who first won the office in 2002 after Gov. Howard Dean left the job to run for president, won another two-year term. He has held elective office in Vermont for most of the last 30 years. Michael Easley, the Democratic governor of North Carolina, also won re-election, keeping the seat in his party's hands, even as President Bush carried his state. He succeeded Jim Hunt, the popular Democrat who served two terms as governor in the 1990's. In West Virginia, Joseph Manchin, the secretary of state and long a familiar figure in state politics, will become the next governor. The office opened unexpectedly this year after the incumbent, Bob Wise, also a Democrat, admitted an extramarital affair and bowed out of the race. Eleven states were picking governors yesterday, five of them with no incumbent on the ballot. Before the elections, Republicans held 28 governors' offices and Democrats 22. Despite a number of competitive races this year and some probable party shifts, voting results and projections indicated that that overall balance of statehouse power would change by no more than one or two seats. The issues on which these races were decided were intensely local. Several states that went decisively for President Bush or Senator John Kerry appeared poised to elect a governor of the other party. Tight budgets and their effects on public services across the board were the main motivating factors for voters, although several states also presented candidates with sharply different styles and personal stories. There was no single marquee race for governor this year, but Indiana, Missouri, Montana, New Hampshire, Utah and Washington had closely fought contests. Races in Delaware, North Carolina, North Dakota, Vermont and West Virginia were less competitive by Election Day. Among the most closely-watched governors' elections was the race in Missouri, where the state auditor, Claire McCaskill, a Democrat, faced Matt Blunt, the Republican secretary of state and son of Representative Roy Blunt, the third-ranking Republican in the House. The race was close all fall. Ms. McCaskill defeated the incumbent, Bob Holden, in the Democratic primary. Ms. McCaskill and Mr. Blunt attacked each other's records and accused each other of changing positions. Ms. McCaskill would be the state's first female governor. Mr. Blunt generally hewed to Republican party positions, including opposition to some forms of stem cell research and support for a state constitutional amendment banning gay marriage. New Hampshire's incumbent governor, Craig Benson, was being challenged by John Lynch, a businessman who specializes in turning around troubled companies and who is a former chairman of the University of New Hampshire Board of Trustees. Mr. Benson, a wealthy technology entrepreneur, campaigned as a fiscal conservative, supporter of the death penalty and opponent of gay marriage. New Hampshire elects a governor every two years. The governor's race in Utah pitted two respected political families against each other in a race for an open seat, but the Republican prevailed in this reliably Republican state. John Huntsman Jr., the Republican scion of a wealthy chemical manufacturing family, a former ambassador to Singapore and a former deputy trade representative, defeated Scott Matheson, a Democrat from a prominent political family. Mr. Matheson is the son of a former governor and brother of a member of Congress from Utah, Jim. Like most other governor's races around the nation, the debate focused on jobs and the economy. Governor Minner, 69, who rose to the state's top office from an impoverished background, is a fiscal conservative but a moderate on social issues. Among her first acts on taking office in 2001 was to order broad cuts in state spending. She has tried to improve the state's health programs and helped push through a tough ban on indoor smoking. She has also tried to limit the expansion of gambling in Delaware. She defeated Bill Lee, 68, a Republican who is former Superior Court judge. In North Dakota, Governor Hoeven, a former banker and a onetime Democrat, won the office as a Republican in 2000 in his first political campaign. This year he pointed to improvements in the state economy, including a modest increase in employment and incomes in the state. Mr. Douglas, the Republican who was re-elected governor of Vermont, has engaged in virtually nonstop campaigning for the past 25 years. He served 12 years as secretary of state and 8 years as treasurer before winning the governor's office in 2002. His Democratic opponent, Peter Clavelle, first won office as a Progressive, becoming the mayor of left-leaning Burlington in 1989. He was defeated four year later by a Republican, then won back the office in 1995Mr. Manchin, West Virginia's new governor, defeated Monty Warner, a Republican who is a former Army officer and is now a real estate developer. Mr. Manchin served in both houses of the state legislature and as secretary of state. He managed to unite business and labor interests and has talked about making the state more attractive to businesses and tourists. Two other incumbents, Judy Martz of Montana, Republican, and Gary Locke of Washington, a Democrat, also choose not to seek re-election.The Democratic candidate in Montana, Brian Schweitzer, and the Republican, Secretary of State Bob Brown, traded accusations of unethical conduct throughout the fall. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: IN THE STATES -- GOVERNORS"}