{"title": "THE 2004 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- West; Shades of 2000: For the most part, the red states stay red and blue states stay blue.", "body_text": "ALASKA With control of the United States Senate at stake in this year's election, the race in Alaska between the incumbent Republican, Lisa Murkowski, 47, and the Democratic challenger, Tony Knowles, 61, was too close to call with nearly half the votes counted. Ms. Murkowski, who was appointed to the Senate after her father was elected governor of Alaska in 2002, contended with accusations that she got her job by way of nepotism. Mr. Knowles, governor from 1994 to 2002, emphasized his willingness to break from the national Democratic Party, particularly on issues involving development. For instance, Mr. Knowles, like Ms. Murkowski, supports opening the Arctic National Wildlife Reserve for oil exploration, despite his party's staunch opposition to the proposal. ARIZONA President Bush won Arizona's 10 electoral votes, and Senator John McCain, the Republican, easily won a fourth term over Stuart Starky, an eighth-grade math teacher. Mr. Starky was never given much chance of defeating Mr. McCain. While expressing personal admiration for Mr. McCain, Mr. Starky said his opponent was more interested in gaining national popularity than in serving Arizonans. Voters also approved a measure to tighten immigrant controls in a state with a large Hispanic population. It requires proof of citizenship to register to vote, photo identification to vote and proof of eligibility to receive local welfare benefits. Another measure that was approved requires anyone proposing a public initiative to specify a financing source other than the state's general fund. CALIFORNIA Senator Barbara Boxer, a Democrat, held onto her seat with a sweeping victory over the Republican candidate, Bill Jones, a former secretary of state. Even in this solidly blue state, the two-term senator is often viewed as being more liberal than most Californians, but according to voter surveys, she did well in all parts of the states. As with her Republican opponents in the past, Ms. Boxer outspent her challenger by millions of dollars. Voters seemed poised to approve the most controversial ballot measure, which would allow for a $3 billion bond sale over the next decade to create the largest state-financed embryonic stem cell research program in the nation. Sixty percent of voters favored the measure, with 14 percent of the precincts reporting. COLORADO Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell's decision to retire gave Democrats a chance to pick up a Republican-held Senate seat, and with most of the vote counted, Ken Salazar, the Democratic state attorney general, was running narrowly ahead of Pete Coors, chairman of the beer company that bears his family name. Mr. Salazar's popularity helped Senator Kerry run better than expected, though President Bush carried the state by a safe margin. Only one change was certain in the House delegation, a replacement for Scott McInnis, a six-term Republican, who is retiring. With more than half the votes counted, Greg Walcher, a Republican state official, was narrowly leading Mr. Salazar's brother John, a Democratic state senator. Voters rejected a measure to change the state Constitution to allocate Colorado's nine electoral votes based on the popular vote, rather than winner-take-all. HAWAII In seeking an eighth term, Senator Daniel K. Inouye, a Democrat who turned 80 two months ago, encountered little trouble against Cam Cavasso, a Republican and a former state representative. Mr. Kerry held a firm lead over Mr. Bush, and polls suggested that Representatives Neil Abercrombie and Ed Case, both Democrats, would be re-elected. IDAHO This Republican state sent its incumbent senator and two Republican representatives back to Congress and gave its electoral votes to President Bush. Senator Michael D. Crapo was opposed by Scott McClure, a Democratic write-in candidate. Nicole LeFavour was poised to become the first openly gay member of Idaho's Legislature. She was leading her Republican opponent by 30 percentage points in partial results. MONTANA For the first time in 16 years, a Democrat was elected governor of Montana, as Brian Schweitzer defeated Republican Bob Brown. The two were competing for the office held by Gov. Judy Martz, a Republican, who decided not to seek re-election. Mr. Schweitzer narrowly lost a bid for the Senate in 2000. In the days before the election, his campaign worried about the impact a large turnout for President Bush would have, because presidential candidates have long coattails in Montana. Not in this case, it turned out. NEVADA Senator Harry Reid, a Democrat and the minority whip, easily defeated his Republican challenger, Richard Ziser, a Las Vegas businessman. Mr. Ziser, who was running for political office for the first time, helped campaign for Nevada's constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage and had hoped to use that network of voters to rally conservatives. In the state's House races, Shelley Berkley and Jim Gibbons, the incumbents, coasted to victory. Jon Porter, the other incumbent, led his opponent with 11 percent of the precincts reporting. With both presidential candidates campaigning hard for the state, surveys of voters showed Senator Kerry with a slight edge. Many singled out his promise to block a proposal to build a nuclear waste dump northwest of Las Vegas as an important issue. President Bush had approved the plan. With 17 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Kerry had a small lead in the actual vote. NEW MEXICO The campaigns of President Bush and Senator Kerry made immense efforts to win this state, which President Bush lost by 366 votes in 2000. Gov. Bill Richardson, a Democrat whose mother was born in Mexico, helped round up support for Mr. Kerry, especially among Hispanic voters. Mr. Bush also made overtures to Hispanics, who account for 42 percent of the state's population. In the Albuquerque metropolitan area, Representative Heather A. Wilson, a former Air Force officer and frequent spokeswoman for the Republicans on military issues, faced a strong challenge from State Senator Richard Romero, a Democrat who is a former schoolteacher. OREGON Senator Kerry defeated President Bush in Oregon, which has the country's only all-mail-in balloting system. Leading up to the election, Republicans had hoped that a ballot measure to ban same-sex marriage would draw out the state's conservative voters. That measure passed, while voters rejected a measure to expand the state's medical marijuana law. In one of the country's most costly and contentious Congressional races, Representative David Wu, a Democrat, held onto his seat, defeating Goli Ameri, a Republican. The race centered on foreign and economic policy until recent weeks, when reports surfaced that a former girlfriend had accused Mr. Wu of sexual assault when they were in college. Representative Darlene Hooley, a Democrat, fought back a challenge by Jim Zupancic, who accused her of being too liberal to represent her Republican-leaning district. With 69 percent of precincts reporting, Senator Ron Wyden, a Democrat, seemed poised for re-election. UTAH Jon Huntsman Jr., a Republican, held a wide lead over Scott Matheson, a Democrat, in early returns in the race for governor. Neither candidate holds elected office, but they have two of the state's best-known names. Mr. Huntsman is a former ambassador who heads the chemical company in Salt Lake City that bears his family's name. Mr. Matheson, a former United States attorney, is the son of a former governor, and the brother of a congressman. The two ran fairly staid campaigns, though late Democratic advertisements called Mr. Huntsman a polluter. Senator Robert F. Bennett, a Republican, was comfortably ahead of former state attorney general, Paul Van Dam, a Democrat, in early returns. Voters also gave overwhelming approval to a ban on same-sex marriage. WASHINGTON With the polls closing at 11 p.m. Eastern time, complete results were not immediately available, but Senator Kerry appeared to have an early edge with a quarter of the precincts reporting. Senator Patty Murray, a former preschool teacher and a two-term Democrat, was favored against Representative George Nethercutt, who in 1994 defeated Representative Tom Foley, the speaker of the House. In the governor's race, the Democrat, Christine Gregoire, the three-term attorney general, was favored over Dino Rossi, a Republican former chairman of the State Senate Budget Committee. Gov. Gary Locke, a Democrat, did not run. Voters rejected a 1 percent sales tax increase for education and a move to overturn the charter schools law, but approved a ban on dumping nuclear waste and a change in the primary system so that the top two vote-getters in primaries would advance to the general election. WYOMING Wyoming had a quiet political year. It was not a presidential swing state, and the Senate seats and governor's office were not on the ballot. Voters decided on two ballot measures to curb medical malpractice judgments, but with most precincts reporting, the contests were too close to call."}