{"title": "THE 2004 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- Midwest; In a region sharply divided, Ohio and Wisconsin went down to the wire.", "body_text": "ILLINOIS The Democrats gained a Senate seat in Illinois, as the bright young star of the Democratic Party, Barack Obama, won convincingly. Mr. Obama, 43, gained national attention in Boston at the Democratic National Convention, delivering a keynote address that was widely praised by members of his party. Mr. Obama was facing Alan Keyes, 54, who joined the race late, after another Republican, Jack Ryan, dropped out when embarrassing allegations were raised in his divorce papers. The candidates were competing to replace Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald, a Republican, who is retiring. INDIANA President Bush captured Indiana's 11 electoral votes and helped propel Mitch Daniels, his former director of the Office of Management and Budget, into the governor's mansion. Mr. Daniels, who had 54 percent of the vote with more than 90 percent of the state's precincts reporting, defeated the incumbent Democrat, Joseph E. Kernan, who took office last year after the sudden death of Gov. Frank L. O'Bannon. Senator Evan Bayh, a fiscally conservative Democrat who accumulated a $7 million campaign war chest, easily defeated Marvin Scott, a sociology professor who was a featured speaker at the Republican National Convention. John Hostettler, the Republican congressman who grabbed headlines this year when he was caught with a loaded gun at an airport checkpoint, emerged victorious over Jon Jennings, a Democrat, in a district known for tight races. Julia Carson, the Democrat who represents the Seventh District in the House, held on to her seat, but her fellow Democratic incumbent, Baron P. Hill, was in a dead heat in his race against Mike Sodrel, his Republican challenger. IOWA Charles E. Grassley, a Republican, won a fifth term in the Senate, easily defeating the Democratic challenger, Arthur Small, a lawyer and former state legislator. Mr. Grassley, who shapes the nation's tax laws as chairman of the Finance Committee, won about two-thirds of the vote, as he did in 1992 and 1998. The state's five House members also won re-election. Iowa, which has only seven electoral votes, was a favorite destination for President Bush and Senator Kerry in the final days of the presidential race. Mr. Bush lost Iowa by less than half a percentage point in 2000, and he tried to win it this year by focusing on counties that he had lost to Al Gore. Mr. Kerry's victory in the Iowa caucuses in January set him on the path to the Democratic presidential nomination, and he returned often, hoping Iowa would give him the margin to win the White House. KANSAS Senator Sam Brownback, a Republican, won re-election by an overwhelming margin. National and state Republican leaders were again hoping to defeat Representative Dennis Moore, the Democrat in the Third District who has been an anomaly in this solidly Republican state. But Mr. Moore, the only Democrat in the Congressional delegation, defeated Kris Kobach, a law professor and former Justice Department official. In a race that proved closer than initially forecast several months ago, Representative Jim Ryun, the former Olympic middle-distance runner and a Republican, beat his Democratic challenger, Nancy Boyda, a political unknown who worked in the pharmaceutical industry and waged a hard-fought campaign. MICHIGAN With 60 percent of precincts reporting last night, Senator Kerry was poised to win a slim victory in Michigan, thanks to strong support from unions, first-time voters and dominant concerns about the economy. With neither its Democratic governor nor its two Democratic senators up for re-election and no House seats expected to switch parties, the major campaigns in Michigan involved ballot proposals to ban same-sex marriage and limit Indian gambling. The gay-marriage ban, known as Proposal 2, passed with 60 percent of voter support. The gambling proposal also passed with 60 percent support. MINNESOTA Senator Kerry was leading in the race for Minnesota's 10 electoral votes. With no Senate seat up for grabs, no race for governor and a series of Congressional races where the incumbents all held their seats, the focus was on which way the state would vote for president. Although Bill Clinton won the state by a wide margin in 1996, Al Gore barely took it in 2000, winning by two percentage points. MISSOURI In one of the country's most hotly contested governor's races, Secretary of State Matt Blunt held a slight edge over State Auditor Claire McCaskill with about 80 percent of the state's precincts counted. Ms. McCaskill, 51, who boasts a long political r\u00e9sum\u00e9, wrested the Democratic nomination away from the incumbent, Bob Holden. Mr. Blunt is just 33 but comes from a three-generation political family. His father, Representative Roy Blunt, the third-ranking House Republican, won his re-election race easily. Senator Christopher S. Bond, the three-term Republican incumbent, defeated State Treasurer Nancy Farmer. The departure of Representatives Richard A. Gephardt and Karen McCarthy, both Democrats, left two open Congressional seats. For Ms. McCarthy's seat, the Democrat, Emanuel Cleaver, a former Kansas City mayor, defeated the Republican, Jeanne Patterson, a political newcomer. In the race for Mr. Gephardt's seat, Russ Carnahan, the son of former Senator Jean Carnahan and the late Gov. Mel Carnahan, was leading his Republican opponent, Bill Federer. NEBRASKA President Bush was leading in this staunchly Republican state, garnering two-thirds of the vote with roughly half of the precincts reporting. Jeff Fortenberry, the publishing executive who was the Republican candidate for the House seat vacated by Doug Bereuter, beat the Democrat, State Senator Matt Connealy. NORTH DAKOTA President Bush trounced Senator Kerry in North Dakota, winning more than 60 percent of the vote. Senator Byron Dorgan, a Democrat, retained his seat, easily dispatching his Republican opponent, Mike Liffrig, a lawyer who had tried to make an issue of Mr. Dorgan's brief appearance in the controversial documentary ''Fahrenheit 9/11.'' Another Democrat, Representative Earl Pomeroy, overcame a challenge from Duane Sand, a Republican. Gov. John Hoeven, a Democrat-turned-Republican, steamrolled over his Democratic opponent, Joe Satrom, a former state senator. Mr. Hoeven had to overcome the anger of traditionally conservative members of hunting groups who objected to the governor's decision to change the pheasant hunting season. Measure 1, a constitutional amendment that defines marriage as legal only when between a man and a woman and does not recognize any other type of domestic union, won wide support from voters. OHIO Ohio and its 20 electoral votes were proving critical in the presidential race, but it was still too close to call early Wednesday despite a small edge for President Bush. In a statewide race, Sen. George V. Voinovich, a Republican who had also served as governor and mayor of Cleveland, won a second term with an easy victory over Eric Fingerhut, a Democratic state senator. Mr. Voinovich had held strong leads in the polls and a huge advantage in money. Ohioans also voted strongly in favor of a state constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriages. Ohio was one of 11 states with the issue on the ballot, but its version was tougher: The state also sought to rule out civil unions. The measures on the ballot were considered a potential boost for Mr. Bush. But the proportion of the ''no'' vote that went for Senator Kerry was greater than the proportion of the ''yes'' vote that went to Mr. Bush. Opponents of the measure promised to consider a legal challenge. SOUTH DAKOTA In a race that could throw out the most powerful Democrat in the Senate, the former Representative John Thune was locked in a near-dead heat against Tom Daschle, the Senate minority leader. Mr. Thune had 51 percent of the vote and Mr. Daschle had 49 percent, with 81 percent of the precincts reporting. Mr. Daschle, who has represented South Dakota on Capitol Hill since 1978, was elected party leader in 1994. Critics, including Mr. Thune, say Mr. Daschle is more closely aligned with the national Democratic Party than the state. Since leaving the House, Mr. Thune has headed a lobbying group in Washington, which has prompted some to say that he is just as tied to Washington as Mr. Daschle. When Mr. Thune ran against Senator Tim Johnson in 2002, Mr. Johnson won by only 524 votes. President Bush easily won the state, as he did in 2000. Analysts had said the outcome of the Senate race could be determined by who showed up at the polls for the presidential election. WISCONSIN In Wisconsin, where Al Gore narrowly defeated George W. Bush in 2000, there was no decisive winner as of last night. The state was the scene of fierce campaigning, and with 75 percent of precincts reporting, the presidential race was neck and neck. Also with 75 percent of the precincts reporting, Senator Russell D. Feingold, a Democrat perhaps best known for championing campaign finance reform, was leading, with 56 percent of the vote in his race against Tim Michels, a construction company executive and former Army ranger who ran as a Republican. The candidates clashed over a host of issues, including the war in Iraq and antiterrorism legislation, which Mr. Feingold was the lone senator to vote against, saying he feared that it would infringe on civil liberties. The state's incumbent representatives, four Republicans and three Democrats, were re-elected. Gwen Moore, a Democrat, won the one open seat."}