{"title": "Italians Show Why They're World Champions", "body_text": "The American team seemed headed for a rare victory over an old rival at the World Team Olympiad here Sunday, but their opponents, the Italian world champions, stormed back to snatch a victory. The Americans began the day trailing by three imps, and had built up a 30-imp lead with 14 deals remaining. But in the next 11 the Italians bid and played brilliantly, guessing well into the bargain. The Americans fought hard, but were not at their best. With three deals remaining the Italians led by 22, and held on to win by 12 in spite of an American gain on a slam deal. The Italians in action were Norberto Bocchi, Giorgio Duboin, Fulvio Fantoni and Claudio Nunes, with Alfredo Versace and Lorenzo Lauria resting. Michael Rosenberg, Zia Mahmood, Bobby Levin and Steve Weinstein were at the table, with Roy Welland and Bjorn Fallenius on the bench. Another strong finish was produced by Hungary, who gained 35 in the last set of 16 deals to defeat France by 14. Russia clung to a small lead and beat Turkey by 7. Japan had a small lead against Egypt, and prevailed by 24. The other matches were not close. China overwhelmed Iceland, winning by 114. Netherlands beat Germany by 33. Ireland beat Sweden, also by 33. And Pakistan defeated England by 37. In quarterfinal play Sunday night, the pairings are: Italy v. Pakistan; China v. Japan; Hungary v. Russia; Netherlands v. Ireland. The United States, represented Leo Bell, Neil Chambers, Marshall Miles, John Onstott, Jim Robison and John Schermer, won the Senior Teams title. The Netherlands and Germany placed second and third. The United States Women's team made a good start in the round of 16, leading Turkey by 50. In other matches the scores were: China led South Africa by 89; Croatia led Sweden by 3; Poland led Austria by 13; Finland led Netherlands by 20; Germany led Russia by 32; France led Greece by 27; and England led Italy by 31. The United States Open Team has performed well here, the loss to Italy notwithstanding, with good prospects in this week's playoffs. On the diagramed deal Rosenberg offered some of the magic that causes many to rate him the world's best cardplayer. At the other table in a match on Wednesday, a Norwegian contract of three clubs was defeated by an American lead of the diamond ten by East. Rosenberg landed in an abnormal and precarious contract of two hearts as shown. West might have raised his partner to two spades, which would have succeeded unless South was inspired to lead the heart ace and give his partner a ruff. The declarer received considerable help when West led the diamond ace, but the contract was still likely to fail. The diamond queen was continued and taken by the king. After long thought, Rosenberg made the unexpected play of the heart three. The defense would have been in control if West had put up the king or queen, but that would have been abnormal, since East might have had an honor. The nine won in dummy, and a club finesse would have been effective. But a low spade was led from dummy to the queen. South now had an accurate picture of the opposing cards. He played the ace of hearts followed by the jack, losing to the queen. West cashed his diamond jack and made an obvious play that proved fatal: he tabled the heart king. That left this position: When West led a diamond, dummy gave up a club and South ruffed. But East had been caught in a position known as a nonmaterial squeeze. He had to discard a spade, an apparently unimportant card. When South led the spade jack, East was helpless. If he won and led a spade, the declarer would be able to take a club finesse. And if East held up his spade ace, he would be endplayed in that suit and forced to lead a club at the 12th trick. The United States gained an unexpected 5 imps en route to winning by 20-10 victory points. BRIDGE"}