{"title": "Waiting for a President", "body_text": "The American people know what to do in these situations: a painfully close division in the Electoral College, and at least one large state with a big pile of disputed ballots. We wait for the best possible count, ready to accept whoever wins by the rules of the game as the next chief executive. When a victor is finally, officially announced, it is important for the entire country to accept him as the rightful president. We have had enough of rancor for a while, and our greatest hope now is that the next president will earn the right to be seen as leader by all the nation. It was inspiring yesterday morning to see the lines of voters at the polls around the nation, but the mood was worrisome. Party loyalty was not the overarching emotion this year. Neither was enthusiasm for either of the candidates. The main emotion seemed to be contempt for the other side. The country has been battered by war, fear of terrorism and economic uncertainty -- all of which seem to have intensified the longstanding distrust between the more secular, urban regions and the religious, rural areas. Three years ago, the trauma of Sept. 11 brought us together. But as we have noted again and again, President Bush failed to come up with a national agenda that would make that moment of strong national purpose permanent. The knee-jerk partisanship that replaced it has been made worse by the narrow division between Republicans and Democrats, which makes everyone in Washington feel compelled to jockey for the slightest partisan advantage. If he is going to succeed at achieving anything of substance, the next president will have to help the nation reach some new place where elected officials expect that rewards can be won from cooperation and mutual respect. Right now, we are in the peculiar position of suffering political paralysis, despite the fact that there is a clear consensus on most questions of policy. Any pollster, and any reasonable politician, can tell you what most Americans want, particularly when it comes to a domestic agenda. Pick the moderate position on almost any issue -- Social Security, gay rights, taxes -- and you will find the public right behind you. But lawmakers can't lead themselves into a bipartisan consensus. Only a president can create a new mood, and he can do it only by sacrificing his own short-term political advantage on occasion for the common good. The next chief executive will also have to reckon with the failure of both parties this year to prepare the American people for bad news or common sacrifice. For all their disagreements about the war, both George Bush and John Kerry assured the public that Iraq can be stabilized and moved toward a semblance of democratic government, and that American troops will stay until that happens. That job will be tougher, bloodier and more expensive than either candidate has been willing to admit. Neither man has actually suggested that any voters (other than Mr. Kerry's Very Wealthy) will have to sacrifice anything to underwrite the cost of staying in Iraq indefinitely. And neither man has come close to preparing Americans for the possibility that the next president may have to admit that fixing the mess in Iraq has become not merely a question of what Americans can accomplish, but a losing game in which the United States is doing its global interests more harm than good. And neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Kerry has been forthright about the challenges of a world where American workers are going to have to be very adaptable, and American children much better educated, to compete with the ambitious and energetic next generation in places like China and India. Neither has done a particularly convincing job of explaining how Americans can expect to continue getting all the government services they have reason to expect, while the government still finds money for new challenges like homeland security. The new president, in truth, faces a nearly impossible job, and it is a tribute to the optimism of the human spirit that at the beginning of this year, so many people were vying to take on this task. We entered this election season discouraged, as usual, by the caliber of the candidates running for president. As time went on, we were forced to admit -- perhaps a little grudgingly -- that Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry shared the steely discipline and self-possession that are critical requirements for the most difficult job on the planet. As the votes were slowly counted last night, we hoped for clarity and fairness in the ultimate result. But most of all, we hoped that the ultimate winner would balance his enormous self-confidence with a large dose of humility. That could mark the beginning of a White House for all the people. Editorial"}