{"title": "Give Until It Stops Hurting", "body_text": "For many of us New Yorkers, the past three years have, understandably, drawn our view outward, to threats and problems emanating from elsewhere. The election, cast as it was between competing visions of how the United States should be in the world, has only intensified the psychic pull: away, over there. Meanwhile, here at home, another force has gained momentum, resulting in a growing number of working families who have been derailed by a relentlessly slack job market, stagnant wages and out-of-control health care costs. The New York City economy started to come back to life within a year of 9/11. But since then, the benefits of economic growth have, perversely, flowed up the income scale, creating buyers for ''average'' million-dollar apartments and sushi dinners for $350 per person. Meanwhile, 20 percent of residents live below the poverty line -- barely $18,000 for a family of four -- and two-thirds of those in poverty work for an average hourly wage of $6.77, far too meager to meet their basic needs. Economic despair leads to social and spiritual crises, as seen in soup kitchens and homeless shelters that are strained beyond capacity and families racked by discord and deprivation. Those most in need are single mothers, who head 24 percent of the families in New York City, and low-income families who have been struck by disaster in any of its unwelcome forms. Once someone's down, it is hard to come back: according to a recent survey, the biggest problem facing New Yorkers is simply finding and keeping a job. To make it through trying times, the neediest New Yorkers need the help of their fellow New Yorkers. A proven way to give is through The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Since 1912, caring donors have contributed hundreds of millions of dollars to the fund. The Times pays all administrative costs while funneling every cent that is donated to seven local charities: the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service; the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York; the Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens; the Children's Aid Society; the Community Service Society of New York; the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies; and the UJA-Federation of New York. Please send your check to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. You may also contribute with a credit card by telephone at (212)556-5851 (Extension 7), or online at www.nytimes.com/neediest. Editorial"}