{"title": "Republicans Add Seats in South; Obama Wins", "body_text": "Republicans made significant gains in Senate races in the South yesterday, picking up seats in South Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia and Louisiana and beating back a strong challenge in Kentucky, which left them well-positioned to retain their majority control. In two gains for the Democrats, Barack Obama, the state senator from Illinois who emerged as one of his party's brightest stars at last summer's Democratic convention, handily won his race for the United States Senate. He will become only the third black senator since Reconstruction. In Colorado, Ken Salazar, the Democratic state attorney general, beat Peter H. Coors, the beer magnate, to become the fourth Hispanic senator in history. There are no Hispanics in the Senate now; the last, Joseph Montoya, a New Mexico Democrat, left in 1977. But three races were too close to call. The Democrats' leader, Senator Tom Daschle, was locked in a fierce struggle in South Dakota, in a race fraught with political symbolism as his opponent, former Representative John Thune, served as a proxy for the White House. In Alaska, Senator Lisa Murkowski, who was appointed to her seat by her father, the current governor, was facing a stiff challenge from Tony Knowles, the former Democratic governor. Nepotism was the main issue in this contest. Alaska has not sent a Democrat to the Senate in more than two decades. And in Florida, Mel Martinez, a Cuban \u00e9migr\u00e9 and Republican candidate, was locked in a dead heat against Betty Castor, a former state education official. Republicans, weary but clearly relieved, were declaring victory in the battle for both the Senate and the House. The Republicans maintained and perhaps slightly enlarged their majority in the House with the help of a disputed redistricting plan in Texas that sent several longtime Democratic incumbents to defeat. In the Senate, a string of Democratic retirements in the South created a critical opening for the Republicans. ''We've definitely retained the majority,'' Senator George Allen, chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said early this morning as he awaited a few last results from Western states. Reflecting conservative strength in the Sun Belt states, Republican victories by Representative James W. DeMint in South Carolina and former Representative Tom Coburn in Oklahoma added two staunch conservatives to the Republican ranks. In Louisiana, another conservative, Representative David Vitter, barely avoided a runoff in a multicandidate race to replace the Democratic veteran, Senator John B. Breaux, who is retiring. And in North Carolina, Representative Richard M. Burr, a Republican, defeated Erskine Bowles, the former Clinton chief of staff, for the seat left vacant by Senator John Edwards, who ran for vice president. In Georgia, Johnny Isakson, a House member from the Atlanta suburbs, easily won the seat being vacated by Senator Zell Miller, the conservative Democrat who was retiring as an angry critic of his own party. Republicans also eked out a victory in Kentucky, where Senator Jim Bunning, a baseball hall of famer, had committed several verbal gaffes in the last few weeks and saw his once-comfortable lead over Dr. Daniel Mongiardo vanish. One thing Mr. Bunning said was that his opponent looked like one of Saddam Hussein's sons, a comment for which he later apologized. Most Senate incumbents easily won re-election. Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York rolled up a lopsided victory, as expected, with strong majorities across the state over his main opponent, Assemblyman Howard D. Mills of Goshen. The marquee Senate race was in South Dakota, where Mr. Daschle, the Democratic leader, was struggling to hold onto the seat he has held for 18 years after a bruising campaign against Mr. Thune, a race expected to come down to just a few thousand votes. Elections officials were bracing for a long night of tallying absentee ballots by hand. At 56, Mr. Daschle has been the Democratic leader for 10 years, and a loss would be a huge psychological blow to his party. He raised more than $18 million for his campaign, flooding the state with television advertisements to remind voters of the millions in federal grant money he has taken home to South Dakota. But Mr. Thune hit back hard, characterizing Mr. Daschle as ''the chief obstructionist'' to President Bush's agenda, and out of touch with the values of ordinary South Dakotans. If Mr. Daschle loses, he will be the first Senate leader to do so since 1952, when Senator Ernest W. McFarland, the Arizona Democrat who was majority leader, lost to Barry Goldwater. At least two Democrats have been discussed as possible successors as minority leader: Senator Harry Reid of Nevada and Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut. Democratic stalwarts in New England -- Mr. Dodd and Senator Patrick J. Leahy in Vermont -- easily retained their seats, as did Senator Evan Bayh, an Indiana Democrat. The Democratic senators Barbara A. Mikulski of Maryland, Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas, Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota and Mr. Reid of Nevada also coasted to victory. So did Democratic Senators Barbara Boxer in California, Patty Murray in Washington and Ron Wyden in Oregon. Senator Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin held off a challenge from Tim Michels. Republican senators who also savored easy victories included Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, George V. Voinovich of Ohio, John McCain of Arizona, Christopher S. Bond of Missouri, Sam Brownback of Kansas, Michael Crapo of Idaho and Charles Grassley of Iowa. Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, staved off a challenge from Representative Joseph M. Hoeffel III. The two parties have fought intensely over control of the Senate for four years. Republicans held a tiny majority after 2000, but the Democrats won control when Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont, a Republican, defected and became an independent in 2001. The Republicans returned to power in the 2002 midterm elections, a battle waged after the Sept. 11 attacks and in the months leading to the war in Iraq. Republicans headed into this campaign with what was effectively a 51-to-49 majority and high hopes of expanding it. Almost nobody expected them to gain the 60 votes necessary to cut off filibusters and really control the chamber, but enlarging their majority seemed likely. The map clearly worked to the Republicans' advantage. Democrats had to defend 19 seats, the Republicans only 15. And the Democratic Party found itself even more on the defensive across the South, after a string of Democratic retirements in states that tilt increasingly conservative -- including Louisiana, Georgia and the Carolinas. Republicans strengthened their grip on the region with a pickup in Georgia, where Mr. Isakson had long been expected to handily win the seat left vacant by the retirement Mr. Miller. The retirements in the South were a ''tremendous opportunity'' for the Republicans, said Merle Black, an expert on Southern politics at Emory University, making it all the harder for the Democrats to regain the majority. I This year could also be one for gains in the number of women in the Senate, which stands at 14, a record. Until 1992, no more than two women had served at once. Even with continued Republican control in the Senate, there will be major changes in the internal power structure. For the first time, Republican rules will go into effect that require Republican chairmen who have served for six years to step down from those posts. This means, for example, that Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the Utah Republican who is chairman of the judiciary committee, must step aside, opening the way for Mr. Specter, who is next in line to become chairman. This comes at a time when the committee will almost certainly be considering nominees to the Supreme Court, making the ascension of a moderate like Mr. Specter a potential source of controversy within his conservative caucus. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE SENATE -- RACES ACROSS THE NATION"}