{"title": "Voters Find Long Lines and Short Tempers, but Little Chaos at Polls", "body_text": "Lines were long, tempers were short, some voting machines malfunctioned and a few polling places briefly replaced electronic wizardry with cardboard ballot boxes. But America's national election seemed to run smoothly yesterday, with no widespread reports of chaos, fraud or legal challenges that might affect the outcome. Caught in a huge turnout generated by a bitter campaign and polls showing a down-to-the-wire dead heat, voters across the country often stood for hours to cast ballots, determined to have a say in what many regarded as a turning point for a nation at the crossroads of war and a struggling economy. ''This year a lot of people will stand in line no matter how long,'' James Richmond said after a three-hour wait at a polling place in a Denver bookstore, where the line ran conveniently past a poetry section into the history aisle. ''America is pretty emotionally and politically charged,'' Mr. Richmond added. Beyond books and magazines, there were cellphones and quiet conversations to pass the time in a slow-moving line outside St. Anthony's Church in Greenwich Village, in New York City. Volunteers provided umbrellas for voters in lines on a rainy day in Cleveland. And Kerry supporters in Philadelphia cooked hamburgers on a sidewalk grill for those trapped in one polling place line. Still, patience ran thin and there were thousands of complaints across the country: of confusion and incompetence among election workers, of difficulty finding polling places, of polls opening late or shutting down early, of touch-screen machines that seemed to record votes incorrectly or not at all, of decades-old machines that jammed up, of partisan appeals being made inside the 100-foot no-electioneering zone. There was only one report of election-related violence. Two Bush supporters in Florida filed a lawsuit, seeking damages, claiming that they had been punched, pushed and spat upon by Democrats. In Madison, Wis., a man trying to vote found that his identity had already been used to cast a ballot. And there were other serious problems. Disputes over absentee ballots arose in at least two states. Pennsylvania Republicans filed suit in federal court in Philadelphia seeking to prevent absentee ballots from being counted before Friday, when names could be compared to registration rolls. And in Florida, many Palm Beach County residents who never received absentee ballots were having a hard time casting regular ballots. They were only required to sign oaths swearing they had not yet voted, but some poll workers were insisting on checking with a supervisor whose line was constantly busy. The Election Protection Coalition, a nonpartisan group that tracked problems in polling places, said it had received 23,000 reports of problems at the polls nationwide, including 1,100 about voting machines that malfunctioned and 8,900 incidents of voters not appearing on registration rolls. Thousands more involved problems with absentee ballots. Some disabled Florida voters who failed to receive absentee ballots were turned away when they tried to vote in person. Elsewhere in Florida, some Hispanic voters said they were falsely told the polls had closed early, and in New Mexico some voters said callers had given them phony information about changed polling places. In Nevada, election officials said calls had been made to some registered Democrats telling falsely of changes in the time and place of balloting. Others reported visits from strangers with ballots, which were to be filled out and handed back. More confusion surrounded the use of provisional ballots in many states. They were being used for the first time by voters whose names did not appear on official voter rolls. Some states counted them yesterday, others said they would do so only if a recount became necessary. Partisan poll watchers monitored balloting in Florida, Ohio, Iowa, Colorado and other swing states, many of them lawyers watching for chicanery. But fears that they would challenge and perhaps disenfranchise tens of thousands of voters in perilously close races, tipping the balance, were not borne out. Many were challenged, but survived examination of their qualifications and had voted by day's end. In Florida, 5,000 Republican poll watchers had been instructed to challenge anyone whose name did not appear on the rolls, who might have voted early or by absentee ballot and people convicted of felonies who had not received clemency. But such challenges appeared to be infrequent, and Allie Merzer, a spokeswoman for the Florida Democratic Party, said there had been no egregious cases. In closely contested Ohio, thousands of lawyers and other election monitors for the Republicans and the Democrats appeared at polling places across the state after being authorized by federal judges to challenge the eligibility of voters with questionable qualifications. The challengers appeared to be keeping an eye on each other, as well as the voters, and there were no reports that large numbers of voters were being challenged or denied a ballot. Republicans had contended that they wanted to exercise challenges to cut down on fraud, weeding out unregistered or ineligible voters, or anyone who tried to vote more than once. They said that they wanted only to guarantee a fair election for all. Democrats, who said they did not intend to challenge any voters, charged that the Republican challengers were really out to intimidate voters, especially low-income and minority voters, who might be singled out disproportionately. Making this argument in court, Democrats had won orders from federal judges in Cincinnati and Akron barring challengers from polling places. The judges held that fraud-prevention measures were already in place and that aggressive challenges might cause chaos and intimidate some voters. But the Republicans appealed, and an appellate court in Cincinnati overturned the rulings early yesterday. Justice John Paul Stevens of the Supreme Court agreed, clearing the way for the challengers. In Iowa, election officials and voters were congratulating themselves by late afternoon for having a smooth Election Day, despite what was expected to be a record turnout of 1.4 million voters. Thousands of lawyers had volunteered to help if trouble arose, but most were ''sitting around twiddling their thumbs,'' said Jean Hessburg, executive director of the Iowa Democratic Party. There were no reports of major problems at polling places in Minnesota, although there were scattered complaints of malfunctioning voting machines and electioneering too close to the polls. There were similar complaints in New Mexico, but no major disruptions were reported at the state's 1,400 polling places The voting in New York City's 6,090 election districts went slowly but smoothly for the most part. There were long lines at nearly all the polling places, and it often took more than an hour to cast a ballot. Some polling places opened late. There were scattered voting-machine breakdowns, and in some cases election workers seemed more confused than the voters. At a polling place at 45 Wall Street in Lower Manhattan, things got off to a shaky start. Voters began lining up at 6 a.m., but the poll did not open until 7 a.m., an hour late, according to Jim Jordan, 34, who works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. By then, the lines snaked down Wall Street to the to the statue of George Washington outside Federal Hall. Five election workers finally appeared, but seemed not to know what to do, said Louise Burley, an inspector for the Board of Elections. She gave them a quick tutorial. Then, as things got started, one of the two voting machines -- devices that dated from the early 1960's -- broke down. Frustrations mounted. ''People were a little upset,'' Ms. Burley said. For two hours, until technicians fixed the broken machine, the election workers resorted to another, older technology: paper ballots stuffed through a slit in a cardboard box marked: ''Official Ballot Box.'' Sharon Felder, 46, who lives in the neighborhood, waited only a half-hour in line. ''This is the most important election of my lifetime,'' Ms. Felder said. ''It's worth the wait.'' By early afternoon, the New York Public Interest Research Group reported 1,500 calls from voters seeking information on polling locations or complaining about long lines, late openings, ill-trained election officials and voting machine malfunctions. The Board of Elections had 75 technicians to repair machines in all five boroughs. In Newark, 200 people were turned away by election officials at one polling place in the morning, mostly because their names were not on voter registration lists. The 200 went to an Election Day law clinic where five Superior Court judges heard their cases and issued orders that permitted nearly all of them to cast their ballots. There were also false alarms. In Philadelphia, Republican poll monitors looking for any sign of irregularities complained that voting machines already had thousands of votes on them when the polls opened at 7 a.m. Election officials and prosecutors rushed to investigate, but discovered that the Republican operatives had mistakenly read numbers from a counter that records every vote ever cast on a machine -- not the one that was to record yesterday's tally. And in Mount Laurel, N.J., a polling place at the Fleetwood School was closed by the police for two hours after election officials found a white powder on the floor. The unsolved anthrax attacks of 2001, which killed five people and injured 17 others, leaped to mind. But the suspicious substance turned out to be common table salt, the police said, and voting resumed at 11 a.m. How Election Day Polls Were Conducted The Election Day polls were based on questionnaires completed by voters as they left voting stations throughout the country. The polls were conducted by Edison Media Research of Somerville, N.J., and Mitofsky International of New York City for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The national results are based on 13,047 voters in 250 precincts across the United States. These include 500 absentee voters and early voters interviewed by telephone. The state results are based on 872 to 2,846 voters in 28 to 51 randomly selected precincts across each of 18 states analyzed by The Times. In certain states some interviews were also conducted by telephone with absentee voters and early voters. In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from such polls should differ by no more than plus or minus one to two percentage points nationally, and three to five points in each state, from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all voters who cast ballots in each of these elections. Results based on smaller subgroups have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on Election Day, like the reluctance of some voters to take time to fill out the questionnaire, may introduce other sources of error into the poll. THE 2004 ELECTIONS: THE VOTERS -- THE BALLOTING"}