{"title": "OTHER HIGHLIGHTS", "body_text": "NEW YORK Schumer, in a Stroll  Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat, easily won a second term, defeating Assemblyman Howard D. Mills. Aided by strong voter turnout, weak opposition and six years of relentless travel around the state, Mr. Schumer appeared to do well across the breadth of New York. He raised a total of $26 million for his campaign accounts, a huge amount that scared away many possible Republican challengers. Page P15. FLORIDA 2000? Not This Year  For all the predictions that Election Day in Florida would be a repetition of four years ago, the results were pretty much the opposite. President Bush led Senator John Kerry by a comfortable margin after a relatively trouble-free day at the polls. But the Senate race remained nearly tied. Page P7. GOVERNORS Bush Aide Wins in Indiana  President Bush's former budget director, Mitch Daniels, a Republican, left, defeated Gov. Joseph E. Kernan of Indiana, who was seeking re-election. Elsewhere, Gov. Jim Douglas of Vermont, a Republican, and Gov. Michael Easley of North Carolina, a Democrat, bucked the presidential tides in their states. Page P11. REFERENDUMS No on Gay Marriage  Voters in at least 10 states approved ballot measures defining marriage as between a man and a woman, despite strong lobbying by gay rights groups. In Colorado, voters rejected a proposal to replace the winner-take-all distribution of Electoral College votes with a proportional system. Page P9. THE HOUSE Texas Helps the G.O.P.  Aided by the ouster of several Democratic incumbents in Texas, House Republicans maintained their majority. In Connecticut, Representative Christopher Shays, left, a Republican who was a leader in the movement to change the campaign finance laws, beat back a ferocious challenge. Pages P11 and P15. VOTING Confusion in New York  With a huge turnout testing New York City's antiquated voting system, voters complained of long lines, confusion and broken machines at some polling places. Election officials appeared overwhelmed and unprepared for the crush of people who showed up to cast ballots. Page P1."}