{"title": "Madison Avenue is helping the Red Sox savor their long-awaited return to the victory circle.", "body_text": "THE delirious fans of the Boston Red Sox are confident that last week's World Series victory has ''reversed the curse'' supposedly afflicting them since 1918. It also appears the team's first title in 86 years may help reverse a recent trend on Madison Avenue. For several years, agencies and advertisers seeking the most effective way to spend scarce marketing dollars have preferred to sign endorsement deals with athletes known for long-term performance, rather than the winners of a big game or a championship whose prowess -- and fame -- may be fleeting. That is why Cal Ripken Jr., Joe Montana and Wayne Gretzky appear in advertising almost as often as active athletes. ''Advertisers have recently been using not only retired players but managers like Joe Torre and owners like George Steinbrenner,'' said Bob Dorfman, executive vice president and executive creative director of Pickett Advertising in San Francisco, who specializes in matching athletes with marketers. ''They're even using fake players they make up, like Leon,'' he added, referring to a vain, money-mad character who appears in commercials for Budweiser created by the Chicago office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group. For marketers, the uplifting tale reverberating in the news media of how the Red Sox returned to the victors' circle after more than eight decades of futility is elevating the team to a status far above that of typical winners of a single title. For instance, the celebratory ''What's Next?'' campaign from the Walt Disney Company, in which athletes proclaim, ''I'm going to Disney World!'' (or Disneyland), has recently been playing down one-trick ponies in favor of sustained success stories. But immediately after the Red Sox beat the St. Louis Cardinals in Game 4 last Wednesday, Disney and its agency in Chicago, Tapestry, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe, filmed three Boston teammates -- Pedro Mart\u00ednez, David Ortiz and Curt Schilling -- for commercials in which they declare, in English and Spanish, ''We're going to Disney World!'' The commercials began running the next evening on television networks like ABC, Fox, Telemundo and Univision. And Disney brought the players to Walt Disney World in Orlando, Fla., for parades on Thursday and Friday. ''We saw an incredible achievement, the reverse of the curse, taking place, so this is one that deserves to be recognized,'' said Michael Mendenhall, executive vice president for global marketing at the parks and resorts division of Disney in Burbank, Calif. ''You could feel the momentum building with consumers,'' he added, ''and when the Red Sox broke the so-called curse, we celebrated with them.'' Another totem of athletic achievement, an appearance on the Wheaties cereal box, had not been conferred on a World Series winner by General Mills since the New York Yankees beat the Atlanta Braves in 1999. But Mr. Ortiz, with his teammates in the background, will show up on several million Wheaties packages now being distributed nationally. ''The history of the Red Sox is a great story, one of the biggest in sports,'' said Greg Zimprich, a spokesman for the Big G cereals division of General Mills in Golden Valley, Minn. ''We felt Wheaties should be there and be part of it.'' The Red Sox are also a team ''that has a great following nationally,'' he added, which could stimulate Wheaties sales more than if the team had only local or regional appeal. Mr. Zimprich recalled during a recent visit to Los Angeles ''driving down Santa Monica Boulevard and seeing a bar with a big Red Sox logo out front.'' The Gillette Company, which is based in Boston and has been sponsoring baseball and World Series games since 1904, ran an advertisement in Boston newspapers on Friday congratulating the Red Sox. ''We'd like to say we would have run the ad no matter who won the World Series, but that's not the case,'' said Michele Szynal, a spokeswoman for Gillette. ''I can't remember the company ever doing this before,'' she added. ''It has been 86 years, so this is special.'' The ad, by BBDO Worldwide in New York, part of Omnicom, shows a baseball under a four-line headline: ''Faith over doubt. Guts over ghosts. Destiny over dynasty. Sox over Cards.'' Another baseball mainstay, the Topps Company, is rushing out a boxed collection of 55 trading cards, priced at $19.99 and bearing the lengthy label of the ''2004 World Champion Boston Red Sox World Series Commemorative Gift Set.'' It is the first time that Topps, which has sold baseball cards since 1951, has so honored a World Series victor. ''The Red Sox are iconic and their fans are not limited to Boston,'' said Clay Luraschi, a spokesman for Topps in New York. ''We don't have an estimated run for the set right now, but we think it will be pretty big.'' Topps had considered a similar set last year, Mr. Luraschi said, but placed it on hold when the Red Sox lost Game 7 of the American League Championship Series to the Yankees. ''This time, we didn't start printing it till that last out,'' he added, laughing. ''It was a little tough for some Topps employees to swallow, because we're New York-based, but even if you weren't a Red Sox fan, you wanted them to do it.'' Topps is selling the cards on its Web site (www.topps.com) and starting next Monday will have them on sale at hobby shops and retail chains like Target and Wal-Mart. Another sports marketer, Nike, planned to run a commercial saluting the Red Sox last year, only to shelve it after the loss to the Yankees. The spot, by Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore., appeared after Boston beat the Yankees for the American League pennant on Oct. 20, and then again last Wednesday after the Red Sox won the World Series. Mr. Dorfman of Pickett Advertising said he believed there are ''a few Red Sox who might break through'' to become busy pitchmen, although ''it might have helped if the Series had gone more than four games'' so the players had gained more national exposure. Among the players Mr. Dorfman listed were Mr. Ortiz and Mr. Ramirez, because their ethnic backgrounds represent ''a huge opportunity for the Latino market.'' Indeed, the Disney commercials they filmed with Mr. Schilling were the first in the ''What's Next?'' campaign to run in Spanish as well as English, said Mr. Mendenhall of Disney. Mr. Dorfman also listed Mr. Schilling as a possible star spokesman, but added that his endorsement of President Bush on Thursday ''could hurt him.'' (Mr. Schilling said a day later that it was wrong for him to ''offer up my political opinions unsolicited.'') The hirsute outfielder Johnny Damon is most likely to succeed as an endorser, Mr. Dorfman said, because ''he's instantly recognizable'' for his appearance as well as his good-natured use of the word ''idiots'' to describe his teammates. ''He's really blue-collar,'' Mr. Dorfman said, ''a classic for commercials for beer, pizza, candy bars, video games.'' Mr. Damon has already worked for Gillette, Ms. Szynal said, shaving his beard with the company's new M3 Power razor in May and donating $15,000 to a literacy program, Read Boston. As World Series viewers saw, the beard has since grown back. Could Schick be calling Boston directory assistance for Mr. Damon's number? THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING"}