{"title": "Annan's Comment on U.N. Abuse Case Helps Appeal, Lawyer Says", "body_text": "The lawyer for a United Nations staff member who brought sexual harassment charges against Ruud Lubbers, the high commissioner for refugees, said Friday that Secretary General Kofi Annan's admission that he had overruled his own investigators in clearing Mr. Lubbers would support an appeal against the ruling. ''It just confirms what we knew to be true,'' said Edward Patrick Flaherty, the Geneva-based lawyer representing the woman, who is identified only as a 51-year-old American with 20 years of service and who is now a senior administrator in the refugee office. ''The complaints were sustained by the Office of Internal Oversight Services, and Mr. Annan's decision in July was wrong,'' Mr. Flaherty said. That contention, he said, was the basis of an appeal filed Oct. 18 with the Geneva Joint Appeals Board, which must make a recommendation to the secretary general. Mr. Flaherty said his client had also requested that Mr. Lubbers's diplomatic immunity be lifted to allow her to file a lawsuit against him in American, Dutch or Swiss courts. Mr. Lubbers, 65, a former prime minister of the Netherlands, became high commissioner for refugees in 2000. His term concludes at the end of 2005. The admission that Mr. Annan decided to take no action despite the fact that United Nations investigators had found the woman's complaint valid and had recommended punishment emerged last week in the annual report of the oversight office. A senior United Nations official had said earlier that if the claims against Mr. Lubbers were found to be true, he would be obliged to resign. The sensitivity of the matter was underscored by a last-minute restoration to the report of the disclosure. The original, which circulated Wednesday, said only that investigators had ''submitted a report to the secretary general on the allegations.'' A revised version issued on Thursday said the office had ''submitted a report to the secretary general supporting the allegations and recommended that appropriate actions be taken.'' When he cleared Mr. Lubbers of the formal charges of sexual harassment in July, Mr. Annan told the 6,000 staff members of the Geneva-based refugee agency in an open letter that he had sent Mr. Lubbers a tough message admonishing him for his behavior. But he did not reveal the investigators' findings. At the time, Mr. Annan said that the complaint against Mr. Lubbers ''could not be sustained,'' and Fred Eckhard, Mr. Annan's spokesman, said Thursday that the reference was to whether or not there was legal justification for punishment. ''He did not say there was no evidence,'' Mr. Eckhard said. ''He said he found the charges unsustainable on a legal basis.'' Mr. Flaherty argued that the document strengthened his client's case that Mr. Annan ignored internal United Nations investigators' recommendations and decided wrongly to keep Mr. Lubbers in his post. ''This demonstrates that there are two sets of rules in the U.N.,'' Mr. Flaherty said, ''one for the protected class and one for the rest. Mr. Lubbers is part of the protected class. My client is not.'' Associates of the woman said the original complaint, filed May 5, alleged that Mr. Lubbers ''grabbed her behind'' as she left a staff meeting in his office Last December."}