{"title": "With Victory, Team Looks Back and Goes Forward", "body_text": "Their hats on backward in a show of solidarity, the Hendrick Motorsports drivers and crew members saluted themselves here Sunday for turning tragedy into triumph. They swarmed into victory lane with smiles and tears and hugs after Jimmie Johnson's come-from-behind victory. For the first time in a week, they seemed to exhale, relieved to be through the early part of their ordeal. A plane crash last Sunday killed 10 people, including the brother and son of their car owner, Rick Hendrick, as they flew to a race in Martinsville, Va. In front of 104,000 fans at Atlanta Motor Speedway, Hendrick's people, four Nextel Cup drivers and their crews, wrapped their arms around one another in joy. Johnson, the Hendrick team's 29-year-old rising star, found a way to win the Bass Pro Shops MBNA 500 after being dominated by Mark Martin, who led 227 of the 325 laps. Early in the race, when Martin seemed unbeatable, Johnson admonished his crew over his in-car radio, saying, ''It's not over yet,'' when he was told Martin looked too strong. Pressed to the wall, three cars wide on Lap 317, Johnson took the lead and held off Martin by about five car lengths for his third consecutive victory. ''I had 10 angels riding on this race car,'' said Johnson, who led only 17 laps. ''I feel bad for Mark -- he had the dominant car -- but things happen for a reason.'' Johnson was in his car in victory lane when he took a telephone call from Rick Hendrick, who stayed in North Carolina to grieve for his family. ''He just told me, put my hat on backwards for little Ricky,'' Johnson said, referring to 24-year-old Rick Hendrick, who died in the crash and who would wear his hat backward around the team headquarters. A number of things came together to make it a spectacular day for Hendrick Motorsports. Kurt Busch, who led the Nextel Cup standing coming into the race, went only 51 laps of the 325-lap race before blowing his engine. He finished 42nd. And Dale Earnhardt Jr. was running in the top five when he blundered with an aggressive move on Lap 311 of the 325-lap race and crashed. Earnhardt finished 33rd when a fourth-place finish would have put him within 2 points of Busch for the series lead. Busch's and Earnhardt's trouble meant that Johnson was able to move up to second in the standing, 59 points behind the leader Busch with three races to go. Jeff Gordon, Johnson's teammate, had his own engine trouble on Sunday and finished 34th. But Gordon, who was in second place, 96 points behind Busch, before the race, actually gained ground. He is in third place, 72 points off the lead. Three weeks ago, Johnson thought he was out of the championship hunt. He was in ninth place and struggling with back-to-back finishes of 37th and 32nd, but he has rallied with three consecutive victories. Busch, meanwhile, had dodged back luck through the first seven races of the Chase, the 10-race sprint to the finish to close the Nextel Cup season. He said he had a suspicion before Sunday's race that he was due for calamity, and it came when smoke billowed out from under his hood followed by a trail of oil on Turn 3 of Lap 52. ''We did everything we could today to alleviate this type of problem,'' Busch said. ''We ran a conservative gear and had high air pressures. We didn't need a catastrophic failure.'' While Busch was not to blame for his misfortune, Earnhardt caused his own trouble. He moved up the track and cut off Carl Edwards, whose front end clipped the back of Earnhardt's car on the back straightaway, sending the red car spinning into a crash. ''It was kind of disappointing to lose all those points, but I don't think it was Carl's fault there,'' Earnhardt said. ''I just came up on him.'' It seemed to be a day for no hard feelings, even for Martin, who first wondered if a late caution flag that hurt his chances was put out to force an exciting and crowded restart. But Martin decided not to belabor the issue and said, ''We got beat.'' Even the passionate Nascar fans got into the mood of the day. As he drove around the track on his victory lap, Johnson noticed fans of his competitors cheering him when they would have normally been booing. ''This is some kind of medication in a weird way and will only help the healing process,'' Johnson said. ''Today, it didn't matter if you were a fan of the 8, the 20, or the 12. People respected what was done today, and it put a smile on the families involved.'' AUTO RACING"}