{"title": "Rivals in Ukraine Report Violations in Presidential Vote", "body_text": "Channel 5, this country's only television network not controlled by the government or President Leonid D. Kuchma's allies, had its license to broadcast here in the capital suspended two weeks ago. A day later, a court froze its bank accounts in a legal dispute that turned on whether a leading challenger in the presidential election on Sunday had been poisoned. As voters cast ballots, a weekold hunger strike by a handful of employees was shown at the top of each hour's news, which the channel continues to broadcast in spite of what its director, Vladyslav Lyasovsky, called the government's ''political terrorism.'' ''This sword of Damocles is still hanging over us,'' he said. The government's legal challenges to Channel 5, which remain unresolved, are part of what Mr. Kuchma's opponents, along with international election observers, have called a pattern of harassment and electoral irregularities that calls into question the fairness of the vote to elect Mr. Kuchma's successor. By the time polls closed Sunday at 8 p.m., there was no letup in the accusations that had swirled around the campaign from the start. Officials for the top 2 candidates in the field of 24 -- Mr. Kuchma's choice, Prime Minister Viktor F. Yanukovich, and Viktor A. Yushchenko, a former prime minister and central bank chairman -- denounced what they said were flagrant violations at polling stations across Ukraine. They cited numerous reports of harassment -- and in at least one case a violent assault -- against voters and election observers from both camps. Vadym S. Galaychuk, a manager of Mr. Yushchenko's campaign, said thousands of names had mysteriously vanished from voting lists. He said in some areas as many as 30 percent of voters could not cast ballots. Many were told to appeal to courts, which remained open into the night, though in at least one case in Kiev, Mr. Galaychuk said, a court had closed by 5 p.m. ''We expected this problem,'' he said in an interview, ''but this is on a far more serious scale.'' Initial vote counts released early Monday showed substantially different results. The Central Elections Commission said that with 15 percent of the votes counted, Mr. Yanukovich had 50 percent of the vote and Mr. Yushchenko had 32 percent. But Mr. Yushchenko, appearing at his campaign headquarters, said his campaign's own count showed that he had 50 percent and that Mr. Yanukovich had 27 percent. If neither candidate gets more than 50 percent they will face each other in a runoff, scheduled for Nov. 21. Mr. Yushchenko stopped short of claiming victory, but early Monday he told cheering supporters, perhaps prematurely, ''The democratic forces have won in Ukraine.'' The country's presidential campaign is a watershed in the country's history, and has already been marred by charges of government abuses, accusations of interference from Russia, Europe and the United States, and a controversy surrounding Mr. Yushchenko's mysterious illness, which he attributed to an attempted assassination by poisoning. Mr. Kuchma's decision to step down after two five-year terms has opened a fierce fight over the country's future, with Mr. Yanukovich promising to follow Mr. Kuchma's course and Mr. Yushchenko promising to steer the country toward a more open and democratic path, more closely allied with Europe. ''I want to live in a proper country where people respect honest leaders and do not fear them,'' Mr. Yushchenko, still showing the effects of his illness, said after voting in downtown Kiev. Voting unfolded with a visibly heightened presence of police and military forces in the capital and elsewhere. On Oct. 23, tens of thousands of Mr. Yushchenko's supporters demonstrated outside the elections commission in a rally that ended with violence. The headquarters of both the election commission and the state's main television channel were surrounded Sunday by barricades and military vehicles. ''This step is quite unusual for a country with some democratic traditions,'' said Stepan B. Gavrish, a member of Parliament and a manager of Mr. Yanukovich's campaign. Voter turnout appeared high, as were tensions, though there were no reports of serious disruptions or large demonstrations. Mr. Yushchenko's campaign asked supporters to delay any demonstrations until Monday, when a large rally was planned in Kiev's Independence Square. At the same time, they said they expected Mr. Kuchma's government to provoke or even stage violent demonstrations to discredit Mr. Yushchenko. Mr. Yanukovich's campaign reported what it called evidence of fraud and intimidation against his supporters, including the beating of some observers in a village near Lvov in western Ukraine, a region that is Mr. Yushchenko's stronghold. Both sides stopped short of saying the results should be declared invalid based on the reported irregularities. Mr. Yanukovich, who became prime minister in 2002, has benefited from high-profile support offered by a politician who has no vote in this campaign: Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin. Mr. Putin has lavished attention on Mr. Yanukovich in recent weeks, including a three-day visit last week, in which they appeared together at a military parade to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from Nazi Germany. Mr. Yanukovich has also enjoyed an overwhelming advantage in coverage on television, which is either state owned or controlled by allies of Mr. Kuchma's, and the news reports have been overwhelmingly positive. Many stations receive daily orders from Mr. Kuchma's administration about the coverage of political events, the government's critics say. Many of Channel 5's problems may stem from the political sympathies of its major shareholder, Petro Poroshenko, a deputy in Parliament who supports Mr. Yushchenko. Mr. Lyasovsky, the Channel 5 director, insisted that the channel aimed for balanced coverage ''where not only Yushchenko, but representatives of any of the opposition had a chance to say something.'' He said, however, that the station's fate under Mr. Kuchma's government underscored the importance of the vote. ''We have two ways,'' he said, echoing the feelings of many here, ''forward or backward.''"}