{"title": "Breeders' Cup Not the Finish Line for Azeri", "body_text": "Two months shy of her seventh birthday, the champion mare Azeri probably is not finished racing, her trainer, D. Wayne Lukas, said Sunday. Azeri could be among several notable Breeders' Cup starters who will be back next year, going against a trend in which many top horses are retired early to be bred. Among the eight Breeders' Cup winners on Saturday, only Speightstown will be retired. The winner of the Sprint, he will be sent to WinStar Farm in Kentucky, where he will stand at stud. Lukas and Azeri's owner, Michael Paulson, decided to run her against males in the $4 million Classic rather than against softer competition in the $1 million Distaff, a race for fillies and mares. Azeri ran fifth but may have a chance to add more major stakes victories to her record. ''We haven't seen the end of her,'' Lukas said Sunday. ''I think she's going to run a couple more times.'' Paulson planned to breed Azeri in February, but that would not preclude her from running Nov. 25 in the Falls City Handicap at Churchill Downs or in races early next year at Santa Anita. A victory in the Falls City could sway voters for the Eclipse awards. Azeri's rival for the older filly and mare championship, Sightseek, was retired before the Breeders' Cup. Lukas said he had no regrets about running Azeri in the Classic instead of the Distaff. Azeri earned $120,000 for finishing fifth, pushing her career earnings to $4,079,820. She is the first filly or mare in North American racing to break $4 million in earnings. ''We have no remorse this morning,'' Lukas said. ''We swung for the fences and the ball fell back onto the field.'' Ghostzapper, who won the Classic, will also remain in training next year as a 5-year-old. ''Ghostzapper is a very exciting horse, and I think I owe it to the racing public to run him next year,'' said his owner, Frank Stronach. ''I will race him in America. I don't plan on any races outside the country. We won't be going to Japan or Dubai with him.'' The trainer Bobby Frankel said Ghostzapper would most likely return in the Metropolitan Mile on Memorial Day at Belmont, which would kick off a summer campaign leading to the 2005 Breeders' Cup, which will also be run at Belmont. Frankel used his news conference Sunday at Lone Star Park to campaign again for Ghostzapper, who he said should be voted Horse of the Year. The only other strong competitor for the title is Smarty Jones, who was retired shortly after running second in the Belmont, ending his bid for a Triple Crown. ''This horse, you can run him six furlongs or you can run him as far as you want,'' Frankel said of Ghostzapper. ''He'll go head to head or he'll come from 20 lengths out of it. And he doesn't carry his racetrack around with him. He's a dream horse and he might as well be a superhorse. Horse of the Year is a no-brainer.'' The Filly and Mare Turf winner, Ouija Board, who is based in England, will also race next year, with a return trip to the Breeders' Cup part of the 2005 plans for her. Ashado, the Distaff winner, has been sent to the Palm Meadows training center in Florida, where she will be prepared for her 4-year-old campaign. Wilko, the Juvenile winner, has been turned over to Craig Dollase, a trainer based in Southern California, and he will be pointed toward the Kentucky Derby. None of the previous 20 Juvenile winners have won the Derby. Pleasantly Perfect, the 2003 Classic winner, sustained a minor injury when finishing third in the Classic, the trainer Richard Mandella said. ''He came out of it a little jarred up behind,'' Mandella said. ''It doesn't look like anything serious, but we'll run him through a scan.'' Pleasantly Perfect may still run Nov. 27 in the Japan Cup Dirt. That would be his final start before being retired and sent to Lane's End Farm in Kentucky, where he will stand at stud. Storm Flag Flying, who was second in the Distaff, has also been retired. She will be bred to A.P. Indy. HORSE RACING"}