{"title": "When the Voting Bloc Lives Inside a Cellblock", "body_text": "John Barczak has had a lot of time to think about what he wants in a president. In a sense, he has had nothing but time. Mr. Barczak is spending at least 35 years in a maximum security prison for committing a double murder. ''I killed a couple of friends,'' he recently explained, dressed in jailhouse blue at Maine State Prison here, about two hours northeast of Portland. ''Got in an argument and shot them.'' Still, Mr. Barczak, 45, a self-described moderate independent who says he is concerned about Iraq and the economy and ''worried about the Supreme Court,'' is as engaged as any other voter. That is because he is a lot like any other voter, able to cast a ballot in federal, state and local elections. He has voted ever since he went to prison for the 1987 murders. And this year, he cast his vote for the candidate of what prides itself as the law-and-order party: President Bush. ''Kerry can't make up his mind,'' Mr. Barczak said. Maine and Vermont are the only states that allow felons to vote while behind bars, a controversial issue in much of the country. In most states, felons can vote only after they get out of jail. In seven states, they cannot vote at all unless, after their release, they successfully petition for their voting rights to be restored. Several states, including Utah and New Hampshire, have outlawed inmate voting in recent years, and some legislators in Maine have been trying to do the same. ''I just was horrified when I realized they could vote,'' said Mary Black Andrews, a state representative from York, Me., whose first husband was a Maine state trooper who was shot and killed in the line of duty. ''I just don't think that they deserve that right if they've been convicted of a violent crime.'' Massachusetts used to let felons vote while in prison, but that was before three inmates tried to form a political action committee in 1997 to lobby for cheaper telephone calls and better medical care. Paul Cellucci, then the governor, opposed the prison PAC and proposed a constitutional amendment to stop inmate voting, which passed in 2000. Vermont's commissioner of corrections, Steven M. Gold, is a supporter of inmate voting and says no one has tried to stop it in that state. ''The vast majority of inmates are going to return to their community,'' Mr. Gold said, adding, ''that very basic and important right of voting is part of trying to get them functioning as taxpayers, rather than tax users.'' In Maine and Vermont, inmates can vote (by absentee ballot) on everything, including the election of judges and how much money is spent on the police in their hometowns. And while voter apathy is an even bigger problem behind bars than in society at large, Maine and Vermont officials say more prisoners seem to be voting this year, fueled by issues like the war and by voter registration drives conducted by inmate advocates and groups including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Even Maine and Vermont prisoners held in other states can vote in their home states. Because of overcrowding, about 400 of Vermont's 1,800 inmates are housed in a prison in Beattyville, Ky., and this year, inmate advocates visited there and registered 104 Vermont prisoners to vote. ''There's almost a childlike excitement here,'' said Kirk Wool, 44, one of the Vermonters in Kentucky, who is serving 29 to 73 years for a sexual assault conviction, and said he ''hadn't begun voting until actually after my incarceration.'' But now Mr. Wool, inmate No. 263524, says he feels so empowered by voting that ''if I had chosen politics instead of crime, call it arrogance, but I believe with my ability to touch people, my ability to speak, I believe I very well could have been governor of the state of Vermont.'' One might think that criminals would be a solid liberal constituency, given liberals' generally stronger support for prisoners' rights. But interviews suggest there are a number of conservatives behind bars. Take Joe-Pete Saucier, in the Maine prison serving his fourth year of a 14-year sentence for vehicular manslaughter after he led the police on a nine-mile chase before crashing his pickup, killing a woman who was a passenger. Mr. Saucier, 27, comes from Democratic stock: his aunt was a state representative and his father was appointed to a commission on juvenile corrections by a Democratic governor, Joseph E. Brennan. ''I had a treehouse built from Brennan for Governor signs,'' he said. But Mr. Saucier is a registered Republican. He voted for Mr. Bush because ''I think he needs to finish what he started,'' he said. Mr. Wool voted to re-elect Gov. Jim Douglas of Vermont, a Republican, because he appointed a commission on prison overcrowding, and Mr. Wool hopes he will bring Vermont inmates back from Kentucky. No one recalls politicians specifically stumping in the cellblocks. ( A spokesman for Gov. John E. Baldacci of Maine said ''he'll stick with the Rotary and the Kiwanis Club.'') But inmates pay attention, reading newspapers, watching television, and even perusing campaign leaflets that are mailed to registered voters like themselves. Mr. Saucier voted for Mr. Baldacci in 2002 because he liked what he said when he visited to meet with prison guards. One avid watcher of the presidential debates was Thomas Karov, serving 20 to 30 years for kidnapping and aggravated assault. (''I went to my ex-wife's house and I wouldn't let her leave there for a couple of hours,'' he said.) ''I don't think much about the economy because I'm in prison, you know what I mean?'' said Mr. Karov, 60, from the Northern State Correctional Facility in Newport, Vt. But Mr. Karov says that he considers issues like ''how big this deficit is getting'' and that ''I have a son that's 20 years old and I don't want to see him ending up in Iraq.'' He was ''thinking of a protest vote for Nader or a write-in for one of the dead presidents,'' but has changed his mind. ''I didn't want to waste my vote,'' he said. ''I voted for Kerry reluctantly.'' Not that the prison constituency is likely to sway an election. Inmates register in the town they lived in before they were incarcerated, so they do not become a voting bloc in the towns where prisons are located. And many do not vote. Maine State Prison logged its biggest voter turnout this year -- about 100 of the 880 inmates. Still, as Mr. Wool, the would-be governor of Vermont, said of his fellow Vermont inmates, ''If all 1,800 of us vote, you have families that are connected to those 1,800, and that's more votes.'' And the dignity of being allowed to vote means a lot, Mr. Wool said. ''When I register for my absentee ballot, I get a slew of brochures,'' he said. ''You see yourself in this little cell and yet these people with all this power and freedom are reaching out to you, too. It gives me hope, it really does.''"}