{"title": "Jets' Secondary Finds An Anchor in Abraham", "body_text": "It was perhaps the finest play on what might have been the finest day for the Jets' secondary this season. When the Jets played at Miami last month, cornerback Donnie Abraham stepped in front of a pass from Dolphins quarterback Jay Fiedler and returned it 66 yards for a touchdown. On that day, the secondary -- which held Fiedler to 196 yards passing, intercepted two of his passes and did not allow a touchdown pass for the only game this season -- appeared to be on the rise. As the Jets and the Dolphins prepare to meet again tonight at Giants Stadium, the secondary is trying to rebound after a 13-7 loss to New England last week in which its flaws -- miscommunication, coverage lapses, missed tackles -- were on full display. But tonight, like last month, the secondary may look to Abraham, its quiet leader, for inspiration. After missing eight games last season with a fractured right shoulder blade, Abraham has made an impressive return. He has authored two of the Jets' biggest defensive plays this season and has been perhaps the steadiest piece of a sometimes shaky secondary. Abraham's success comes as little surprise to Coach Herman Edwards, who said it had simply been delayed a year by injury. ''To me, Donnie was going to have a good year last year, but he got hurt,'' Edwards said. ''I said that in camp, you just see that he was back to his old self.'' Abraham wasted little time this season showing that he was back. In the opener against Cincinnati, he scooped up Rudi Johnson's fumble and returned it 41 yards for a touchdown in the Jets' 31-24 victory. Two games later, Abraham picked off Fiedler's pass in a 17-9 victory. While the coaching staff would welcome those kind of big plays again, they might be just as happy if the secondary was simply able to limit the number of them it surrenders. The Jets have given up nine passes of 30 yards or more this season after allowing a dozen last season. A secondary that finished 2003 ranked 10th in the N.F.L. has slipped to 18th, despite the addition of two new starters, cornerback David Barrett and safety Reggie Tongue, through free agency and another, safety Erik Coleman, through the draft in what the team hoped would be an upgrade. Because of the problems in the secondary, the Jets plan to unveil a three-player rotation at the safety positions tonight with Coleman, Tongue and Jon McGraw. McGraw, a starter until getting injured shortly before the opener, has been used mostly in the team's dime, or six defensive backs, formation since his return in Game 2. At first glance, the matchup between the 5-1 Jets and the 1-6 Dolphins appears lopsided. But Miami's defense, ranked fourth in the league entering the weekend, kept the last game close. The Jets may also be tested by the return of Dolphins receiver Chris Chambers and running back Travis Minor, who missed the game last month because of injury but figure to energize a Miami offense that is third worst in the N.F.L. Last week, Chambers and Minor each scored a touchdown in a 31-14 victory over the St. Louis Rams. Edwards said that newness in the secondary might have contributed to its struggles. After the loss to New England, the defensive coordinator Donnie Henderson, a former defensive backs coach, began taking more time to mentor the secondary. ''Just to clarify things and get guys all on the same page and to really basically break it back down, almost like training camp: 'Hey, guys this is why we're doing this,''' Edwards said. ''Because you've got a collection of young guys, new guys, guys who've never been in the system.'' Despite being a newcomer to Henderson's system, Abraham, a nine-year veteran, has flourished in it. ''With a system like his, it's more aggressive,'' he said. ''It allows the players to make plays. And whenever a player can be in position to make plays, they're very excited about that.'' Abraham has made the most of his opportunities. His two touchdowns this season raised his career total to five. And he is on pace for his highest number of passes defensed since he was selected to the Pro Bowl in 2000 while with Tampa Bay. It was with the Buccaneers that Edwards first got to know Abraham. In 1996, Edwards, then a defensive backs coach with Tampa Bay, urged the team to draft the 5-foot-10, 192-pound Abraham out of East Tennessee State in the third round. ''I've had him since he was a baby,'' Edwards said. ''I drafted the kid. know how he thinks.'' Edwards thought that Abraham's blend of smarts, instincts and ability would be an asset to the Jets, who signed him as a free agent in 2002 after Edwards's first season as coach. ''He knows down and distance, he knows field position, he gets it all figured out,'' Edwards said. ''And if you keep messing around with that guy'' -- throwing the ball in Abraham's direction -- ''he's going to steal it. That's what he does.'' PRO FOOTBALL"}