{"title": "For the Vikings, Woes Against the Giants Become a Well-Worn Tale", "body_text": "Matt Birk, the Harvard-educated center for the Minnesota Vikings, chose his game-day clothing purposefully. The Vikings had not lost often enough to the Giants for it to constitute a jinx -- before Sunday, anyway -- but Birk took no chances. He arrived at the Metrodome in a blue Rangers jersey (with Mark Messier's name on the back) and a Boston Red Sox cap, honoring two long-suffering franchises that won titles after long championship droughts. The sartorial talisman failed to help. Unable to run the ball, the Vikings (boasting the N.F.L.'s top-ranked offense) could not score until the fourth quarter in a 34-13 loss, Minnesota's fourth in five games to the Giants since a 41-0 drubbing in the National Football Conference championship game after the 2000 season. In three seasons under Coach Mike Tice, the Central Islip, N.Y., native who grew up a Giants fan, the Vikings are 0-3, all at the Metrodome. That led Birk to reconsider his choice of ensemble. ''I may have to burn it now,'' he said. The Giants have been nothing but bad luck for the Vikings and quarterback Daunte Culpepper. Two years ago, Tice benched an ineffective Culpepper during a 27-20 loss. Last year, when a 29-17 Giants victory wrecked Minnesota's 6-0 start, the owner Red McCombs ripped the team in the locker room. Three more losses followed as the Vikings' season unraveled, and Minnesota missed the playoffs. A 5-1 start this season put the Vikings atop the N.F.C. North and revived playoff talk. But on Sunday, the Vikings' offense sputtered without Randy Moss. Moss, Minnesota's Pro Bowl wideout, was limited by a right hamstring strain that he sustained Oct. 17 at New Orleans. Against the Giants on Sunday, he played sparingly in the first half and did not catch a pass. Unable to go full speed whenever he ran downfield, Moss walked out for the second half wearing a gray T-shirt, sweat pants and sandals. Culpepper, who threw only three interceptions in Minnesota's first six games, had two Sunday, both inside the Giants' 35. Culpepper finished 24 for 42 for 231 yards and a touchdown. The Giants limited the Vikings to 93 yards on the ground and converted 3 turnovers into 17 points. Tice used up both his replay challenges in the first 12 minutes, with neither resulting in a reversal. By the time Mike Cloud's touchdown run made the score 34-0 early in the fourth quarter, about 10,000 from the announced crowd of 64,012 had left. ''We didn't hold on to the ball and we couldn't run the ball,'' Tice said. ''We didn't sustain our blocks. I really could go on and on and on. I've got a list.'' Culpepper said: ''They had our number today. As you could see, everything that could have gone bad for us, it did. Everything that could have gone good for them, it did.'' The rookie running back Mewelde Moore's mental gaffe on Minnesota's fourth offensive play foreshadowed the day. Moore, the team's leading rusher, muffed a Culpepper pass behind the line of scrimmage -- clearly thrown backward -- but neither Moore nor his teammates chased it. Giants linebacker Kevin Lewis recovered, leading to Steve Christie's 50-yard field goal. Tice challenged the play, although it did not appear close, and lost. Michael Bennett replaced Moore for the next series. Moore said of the ruling: ''I was really surprised. It's just one of those things where you've got to have a little more awareness about it.'' Moore, Bennett and Moe Williams shared time until Moore left the game with a twisted left ankle. So ended a strange week for the Vikings. A Sports Illustrated story quoted McCombs as saying he would pick up Tice's $1 million contract option for next year, but McCombs later told reporters that he would not decide until after the season. McCombs refused multiple interview requests and did not go to the locker room; he walked from the field to a waiting white Ford Excursion. Now Tice faces the difficult task of figuring out how to revitalize the Vikings' offense until Moss is healthy. ''He's a big part of our offense,'' Birk said, ''a big part of our passing game, and a big part of our running game, too.'' PRO FOOTBALL"}