{"title": "Cleveland's Political Circus", "body_text": "A pack of elephants is walking single file down East Ninth Street in downtown Cleveland one late October afternoon. For a moment, my wife and I stand on the street corner, delighted by the dreamy spectacle. Then we grow wary. ''Is this the circus?'' I ask her, and she glances over her shoulder. It is indeed the circus, but for a moment we half-expect that a rally may be gathering, that suddenly a crowd of sign-waving Republicans will bear down on us, chanting. After months of swing-state intensity, it doesn't seem such a surreal possibility. For months, the election has hovered over us like bad weather. At the gym, the banks of televisions in front of the treadmills are all tuned to different stations, and as I jog, the threatening ads pop up on screen after screen. In my neighborhood, most yards sport bouquets of three or four political signs. Politically energized children steal them on their way home from school. One neighbor claims that he's had four Kerry posters taken in the past few weeks. Another says she saw her Bush sign borne away by laughing teenagers, who tore it in half and threw it in the street. Of course, it's been hard not to get a little carried away. We have been told repeatedly that ''Ohio will decide the election!'' and the responsibility is nerve-racking. At first I tried to be civic-minded, and worked constructively to register college students. But by late September I was regularly overdosing on Internet blogs, frequently whipped into a froth of outraged ranting. I was not alone. An air of hostility had settled over our public spaces -- nasty bumper stickers on cars on the interstate, enraged fliers tucked under the windshield wipers in the mall parking lots, a shoving and shouting match outside the library. Even the daily newspaper seemed uncomfortable. ''We have decided not to add one more potentially polarizing voice to a poisoned debate,'' The Plain Dealer announced. ''We make no endorsement for president this year.'' ''It's like a horrible, bitter divorce,'' one friend tells me. ''You're like a kid, waiting to find out which one gets custody.'' Meanwhile, my wife is simply tired of the insincere attentions being heaped upon bland old Ohio -- the frequent, eager, telemarketer-like calls from pollsters and political groups; the kindly people flying in from Manhattan and Salt Lake City to help us with our voting; the politicians themselves and their celebrity friends. ''It's like being asked out on a date by someone who secretly thinks you're stupid and ugly,'' she says, and we pause, silent in the cereal aisle of the supermarket. A woman in an armored vest made of Kerry buttons drifts past; a man in a ''United We Stand'' cap eyes her grimly. ''I just hope it's over soon,'' my wife says, and then she sighs. As if it might just go on and on and on, forever. Op-Ed Contributor Dan Chaon is the author of the novel ''You Remind Me of Me.''"}