{"title": "Greetings From the Swing States; Albuquerque, Found at Last", "body_text": "While New Mexico swings precious little weight in presidential politics -- a mere five electoral votes -- it pays a heavy price for being a swing state. This election has even taken the pleasure out of two of my favorite activities, poker and channel surfing. The Philosophy Club, a group of poker players based at the University of New Mexico, has been made so divided by the barrage of hateful political advertisements that neither George W. Bush nor John Kerry can be mentioned without producing hostile stares and icy silences. The club dates back at least to 1973, when I was first invited to make my weekly contributions. It has become a band of elderly brothers. We remain that way only by avoiding politics and limiting debate to matters like the ethics of raising a bet after checking or whether it makes sense to draw to an inside straight. Nonetheless, at a recent game, a suggestion that the Supreme Court rule that neither presidential nominee is eligible for the job because of secretly being born in Bosnia or Burkina Faso or some place, and that both parties be required to pick new candidates -- with an I.Q. test required and disappointing sons of famous men disqualified -- was unanimously approved. For those of us who watch TV with a channel-changer in hand, running up and down the lineup from Channel 2 to Channel 78 in the hunt for something interesting, things have become hectic. One clicks away from a Republican operative outlining Mr. Kerry's flip-flop voting record only to find a Democrat pointing to George W. Bush's foreign-policy blunders. One channel away is our Republican member of Congress warning us that her opponent seldom bothered to vote as a state legislator. Two channels up, there he is, telling us that our representative is a ''friend of Osama bin Laden.'' Now, with polls showing the race undecided, our puny five-vote delegation looks very important. And New Mexicans are not used to this. We are used to being ignored. We love it that way. One of the most popular monthly features in New Mexico magazine is called ''One of Our 50 Is Missing.'' It consists of reports about folks in other states refusing to accept our ''foreign'' credit cards, asking if one needs a visa to visit a friend in Albuquerque, or demanding a foreign postage charge to send the pair of shoes you've ordered from their catalog. Now, it seems, our fellow Americans finally know what country our state is in. I'm not the only one hoping that after tomorrow, they'll forget. Op-Ed Contributor Tony Hillerman, a former editor of The Santa Fe New Mexican, is the author of the forthcoming ''Skeleton Man.''"}