{"title": "One Book, Two Book, Red Book, Blue Book", "body_text": "If you follow the sales of books closely enough, you are bound to come across a beguiling revelation or two. Here's one: the humor category is dominated by liberals and left-leaning authors. In fact, 95 percent of the sales in the political humor section comes from the left. Whether this means that conservative writers have no sense of humor, or that publishing houses fail to recognize it, is worthy of study -- or even loud protest from the right. Indeed, the right seems convinced that booksellers and publishers are trying to influence the election by publishing and prominently displaying books that attack President Bush. In stores across America, angry citizens can be found poring over book displays and tallying up the number of titles according to their political persuasion. If they don't like the mix, they run to their phones and complain to their favorite radio talk-show host. Pity the poor bookseller who gets caught in the middle. Citizens on the left, also believing the news media is out to get them, play a few tricks on bookstores themselves. A favorite tactic is to remove books by the likes of Ann Coulter, Sean Hannity, et al., from the shelves in the politics section and hide them in a subject area that gets limited traffic (see ''Parenting''). Another tactic is to remove book jackets and throw them in the trash, a crime we haven't been able to do much to prevent. Not surprisingly, bookstore warriors on the left and the right have discovered an ingenious method of advancing their cause: They purchase in bulk books that attack the candidate they oppose to create the illusion that everybody in the country is eagerly scooping up dirt on the guy they want to bury. Booksellers call it ''stuffing the bestseller lists,'' an act that does not set off any known McCain-Feingold penalties. As an aside, the practice of bulk-buying has caused many a publisher to misread demand and print more copies, many of which become remainders or door-stoppers the day after the election. This happy state of affairs for booksellers is called ''ka-ching, ka-ching!'' Books from the left tend to sell better in the blue states; books from the right in the red states; and in the toss-up states, the split is -- you guessed it -- about 50/50. And consider this disturbing little dose of reality: Informal polls taken by our store managers indicate that some 70 percent of our customers say they have no intention of reading these books; 15 percent say they will; and 15 percent are undecided. One Kansas City customer said, ''I'm buying this book to show people where I stand.'' Another in New York said, ''I'm buying this book because the author agrees with me.'' Efforts to poll undecided voters have been futile at best, suggesting that persuadable folks in a presidential election year know enough to stay away from bookstores. Inundated as they are with phone calls and doorbell ringers, the last thing the undecideds need to hear is a bookseller saying, ''Wanna buy this book?'' Finally, one last bulletin: Liberal books sell at lower price points, and especially in paperback, while conservative books sell mostly in hardcover. Whether this suggests impending class warfare is not yet clear. Op-Ed Contributor Leonard Riggio is the chairman of Barnes & Noble."}