{"title": "Cheney's Core Speech Seems Stale to Some in Local News", "body_text": "Vice President Dick Cheney is stepping up his attacks on Senator John Kerry in the campaign's final days, repeatedly telling audiences in every state he visits that Mr. Kerry is unfit to serve as president and will ''say or do anything'' to get elected. ''Senator Kerry does not have the judgment or the conviction that America needs in a president,'' Mr. Cheney declared during a rally here on Sunday. That is his core message, repeated several times in every appearance for the last few weeks. But it may not be breaking through in the press as much Republicans would like because local reporters in swing states say they are so inundated by candidates and events that they do not always consider his remarks newsworthy, especially when he sticks to the same stump speech. ''The vice president is extremely consistent in his message; he stays right on point, but we've heard it all already,'' Hollis Towns, the managing editor of The Cincinnati Enquirer, said in an interview. Mr. Cheney has been in Ohio twice in recent days. Most candidates rely on stump speeches during long campaigns. But the editors and others said Mr. Cheney was far more reliant on his than President Bush or other candidates. States like Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Ohio and Florida are subject to so many candidate visits, sometimes two or more each day, that editors and television news directors have a difficult time sending reporters to cover all of them. Mr. Cheney made four stops in Florida in a 24-hour period last week, three in Pennsylvania as well as two each in Michigan, Iowa and Wisconsin. With so many candidates visiting, ''we try, but we don't have enough staff to do everything,'' said Barbara Maushard, news director for WISN, the ABC affiliate in Milwaukee. As it is, with so many candidates, so many appearances, editors and news directors say they are looking for ''anything that is new that we can build on'' to distinguish the latest visit from the last one, sometimes just the day before. For Sunday's campaign rallies, like every campaign stop the vice president makes, only the most dedicated Republicans were invited, people who are committed to vote for Mr. Bush and are almost certain to show up at the polls. In the audience here were veterans and state Republican Party workers and officials. Because the campaign has little need to sway these people's views, they serve, in effect, as a backdrop. The real target in these carefully choreographed events is the news media which, the campaign hopes, will carry Mr. Cheney's message along with the enthusiastic reactions of the audience. The problem is that by and large, Mr. Cheney's remarks seldom vary. With small changes, he has been making more or less the same speech for weeks, though the verbiage dedicated to attacking Mr. Kerry has increased in recent days. His speech here was a shorter version of one delivered Saturday in Nazareth, Pa., which was virtually word-for-word the same as one delivered the day before just 90 miles away, in Montoursville, Pa. Anne Womack, spokeswoman for Mr. Cheney, said she wished there had been more coverage of the core remarks in Mr. Cheney's speech but added that she has generally been pleased with the news coverage. ''Obviously it is up to editors and news directors to decide what they want to cover,'' Ms. Womack said. In the campaign's final two days, Mr. Cheney is running a frantic schedule, visiting Ohio, Iowa, Michigan and New Mexico on Sunday, before making a last-minute, almost hail-Mary visit to Hawaii on Sunday night, trying to capitalize on the perceived softening of support for Senator John Kerry in that traditionally Democratic state. After a red-eye flight back, he has an early morning rally in Colorado followed by two stops in Nevada and a final rally in Jackson Hole, Wyo., where he keeps a home. Throughout the campaign, Mr. Cheney has offering a picture of a bleak future dominated by terrorist threats. He has offered barely a nod toward domestic policy concerns, unless asked. His approach has changed hardly at all for weeks. In Mr. Cheney's core remarks, he denigrates Mr. Kerry as an unprincipled opportunist, citing positions taken during his Senate career and statements he has made since he began running for president. But little of that makes it out of the halls where Mr. Cheney appears. After an appearance in Wilmington, Ohio, last Tuesday, as an example, The Cincinnati Enquirer and Columbus Dispatch both published modest articles that included just two or three sentences near the end from Mr. Cheney's core speech. The articles focused instead on the debate over the cache of missing explosives missing in Iraq, or on one participant's question about how long the military will have to be stationed in Iraq. Ben Marrison, the editor of the Columbus Dispatch, said: ''If they just hit the internal play button and recite the stump speech, that doesn't inspire us to give it good play.'' Mr. Marrison added that he believed the Cheney campaign did not really care about newspaper coverage but instead hoped for time on the local television news. The campaign vigorously disputes that. Ms. Womack noted that while the speeches may not vary a great deal, at some of his events supporters can ask him questions on any subject. In Waukesha, Wis., on Wednesday, Ms. Maushard's station dedicated one minute and eight seconds on the 10 o'clock news to Mr. Cheney's evening appearance, including a 50-second excerpt of Mr. Cheney's speech. Mr. Cheney has added new riffs to his standard speech in the last two weeks. One takes Mr. Kerry to task for saying in an interview that he hoped terrorism could be reduced to the point that it was just a nuisance. And last week, starting on Tuesday in Florida, he added a few sentences attacking Mr. Kerry for criticizing the Bush administration's handling of the missing explosives in Iraq. An article in The Milwaukee Journal on Thursday focused on that with barely a mention of Mr. Cheney's core message. When Mr. Cheney visits smaller towns, quite often the news media, which may not be used to such visits, is more enthusiastic. Before his stop on Tuesday in Lake City, Fla., population 10,000, The Lake City Reporter ran three articles over several days. One said he might come, the next one said he would come. A third on Tuesday advised readers that he was arriving. And the next day the paper ran a news article and an editorial, which said the vice president had ''dazzled the crowd,'' concluding that it had been ''a historic day.'' But the editorial added: ''Cheney spoke for 45 minutes and stuck to the party lines that we have all heard in sound bites many times before.'' THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT"}