{"title": "Koizumi Vows No Japanese Withdrawal After Tourist's Beheading", "body_text": "Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi on Sunday repeated his vow to keep about 550 troops in Iraq after the government confirmed that the decapitated body found on a street in Baghdad was Shosei Koda, a 24-year-old Japanese tourist who was kidnapped by the militant group of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. ''We cannot lose to terrorism; we must not yield to brute force,'' said Mr. Koizumi, who had immediately rejected the group's demand on Wednesday to withdraw its troops from Samawa, in southern Iraq, leveraged by the threat to behead Mr. Koda. The main opposition Democratic Party charged that the deployment of the Japanese troops in Iraq had led to Mr. Koda's death and repeated calls for their withdrawal. But it seemed unlikely that Mr. Koizumi's government would suffer any political setback, since most Japanese seemed to be pointing instead to Mr. Koda's own carelessness. Mr. Koda, who had recently been studying English in New Zealand, reportedly dismissed many warnings in Amman, Jordan, not to travel to Baghdad and took a bus to the Iraqi capital with very little money. Mr. Koda, who was apparently simply curious about the situation in Iraq, did not take necessary precautions in Baghdad and was even seen walking the streets in shorts. Earlier this year, three Japanese who had been taken hostage in Iraq and shown on videotape being threatened with death, and two others taken in a separate incident, were greeted with hostility when they were freed and returned to Japan, and were broadly blamed for having ignored government warnings against traveling to Iraq. Videos of at least four other foreign hostages being held in Iraq brought what is now a familiar mix of hope and grief to their families and countrymen. The French ambassador to Iraq said he had been assured by Sunni Muslim religious figures that two French journalists seized in August -- Christian Chesnot and Georges Malbrunot -- were in good health, Agence France-Presse reported. A new video of a kidnapped Polish woman surfaced late Saturday, lifting hopes among officials in her government, the agency reported. Reuters reported that the distraught wife of a Sri Lankan driver who has been taken pleaded for his release on Sunday. And there was no word on Margaret Hassan, the director of CARE International in Iraq who was abducted Oct. 19 and has appeared in two videos appealing for British troops to leave Iraq. She has also asked for female Iraqi prisoners to be released. Mr. Koda's brother, Maki, 26, speaking on behalf of his family, who had received both hate mail and letters of support in recent days, said, according to Kyodo News: ''We feel strong gratitude for those who had supported us, while we also feel sorry for causing trouble. Despite the outcome, we wish that the Iraqi people would have peace as soon as possible.'' THE REACH OF WAR: TOKYO REACTION"}