{"title": "MediaTalk; Legal Affairs, a Magazine of Ideas, Severs Its Ties to Yale Law School", "body_text": "In the brutal business of magazine publishing, the most successful recent entries have been shopping guides from powerhouses like Cond\u00e9 Nast Publications. Then there is Legal Affairs, a two-year-old magazine of law and ideas that was born and nurtured at Yale Law School. Even though the magazine has no claim to financial success, Legal Affair's staff has decided to shed its Yale ties and go it alone. The January/February issue will be the first to appear without the label, ''A magazine of Yale Law School.'' Yale's money probably will not end, but it is expected to flow more slowly and perhaps less predictably. ''The idea was there would be a period of a couple years when the magazine would operate under the protective umbrella of the institution,'' said Seth P. Waxman, a former solicitor general of the United States and a faculty member at the Georgetown University Law Center, who was recently elected chairman of the magazine's board. ''The notion always was that the intellectual space and the social space this magazine was intended to fill was not the private province of Yale Law School,'' he added. Lincoln Caplan, editor and president at Legal Affairs, says he sees several advantages in stripping Yale from the masthead. One is the possibility of attracting a second look from potential readers who feel no affinity with Yale. Another is that advertisers, sponsors and foundations may be more willing to consider supporting a magazine that is no longer cashing checks from Yale, he said. ''Without the support of Yale and other funders, the magazine wouldn't exist,'' Mr. Caplan said, adding that the magazine is on track to become self-sustaining by 2007. Circulation has grown to around 21,000 and traffic to the Web site is growing, Mr. Caplan said, citing the Legal Affairs blog, called How Appealing. And even though no one would describe the magazine as part of the mass media, it has gained recognition for quality: The Chicago Tribune named Legal Affairs one of the 50 best magazines in the country, putting it on an eclectic list that also included The Economist, Wired and WoodenBoat. Mr. Waxman, the magazine's board chairman, said: ''This is not a shopping magazine. We're hoping that people will come to the magazine to shop for ideas and stimulation.'' NAT IVES"}