{"title": "In Final Days Before Vote, Divided Electorate Expresses Anxiety and Concern", "body_text": "The nation is girding for tomorrow's presidential election, worried about the integrity of the voting system, divided over the legitimacy of President Bush's election four years ago and anxious about the future no matter who wins the contest, according to the final New York Times/CBS News Poll of the 2004 campaign. The poll shows that Mr. Bush and his opponent, Senator John Kerry, remain locked in a statistical tie as they head into the final 48 hours of the race. But the poll registered an increase in Mr. Bush's job approval rating, as well as an increase in the number of Americans who said the nation was heading in the right direction. Republicans described this as evidence that Mr. Bush was picking up speed in these closing days of the campaign, but Democrats dismissed the numbers, saying that both figures remain dangerously low for an incumbent. A majority of voters -- and an overwhelming number of African-Americans -- said they were concerned that their own votes would not be counted properly, and one-third said they expected to encounter problems when they went to vote, the poll found. Nearly 80 percent of black respondents said they expected that some states would make a deliberate effort to prevent them from voting tomorrow. The anxiety appears to be a legacy of the disputed election of 2000: half of respondents in this latest poll said they did not think Mr. Bush legitimately won the presidency in 2000, compared with 45 percent who considered the outcome legitimate. And this campaign does not appear to have done much to burnish Americans' view of the way the country picks its president: 51 percent described it as the most negative presidential campaign in their memory. The poll found that Mr. Kerry's supporters were far more likely to expect trouble at the polls than were Mr. Bush's supporters. The results suggest that whatever happens tomorrow, the bitterness that has gripped the nation for this election year -- indeed, for the four years since Mr. Bush won the presidency in disputed circumstances -- seems unlikely to lift any time soon. Fittingly enough, this final pre-election Times/CBS News poll shows that the race is not much different at the end than it was in March, when Mr. Kerry emerged as his party's presumptive nominee. The president has 49 percent, compared with 46 percent for Mr. Kerry. A number of other polls made public over the weekend suggested that the race was tied or that Mr. Bush had a slight lead. The findings underscore what both sides view as the single most important factor in determining the outcome of the presidential race: which candidate does a better job turning out supporters. At a time when pollsters watch for evidence of late campaign shifts and movement, Mr. Bush's job approval rating has risen to 49 percent from 44 percent two weeks ago. Incumbent presidents with job approval ratings under 50 percent are almost invariably defeated. The public's view of his handling of foreign policy and the war in Iraq has also edged slightly upward. And there has been a slight increase in another measure that has been ominously low for Mr. Bush, the direction the country is heading in: 43 percent now think the country is moving in the right direction, compared with 37 percent two weeks ago. That is the highest number since the capture of Saddam Hussein. Still, 55 percent of respondents said the country was heading in the wrong direction, continuing a trend that has long threatened Mr. Bush's prospects, and the overwhelming majority of those said they were planning to vote for Mr. Kerry, the poll found. And Mr. Bush has yet to draw support from 50 percent of the voters; should he continue to stay below 50 percent, Mr. Bush would need Ralph Nader, the independent, to help him defeat Mr. Kerry. Mr. Nader drew 1 percent of the vote in the poll. The nationwide telephone survey was taken Thursday through Saturday of 920 adults, including 824 registered voters. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points for the entire group, and four percentage points for likely and registered voters. The poll began after the release of the Osama bin Laden videotape, and continued for two nights after that. However, it was was not designed to provide statistically reliable nightly samples that might have measured the impact, if any, of the tape on the election. Two polls released Sunday -- one by the Pew Research Center and a Wall Street Journall/NBC Poll -- found that the videotape had no effect on the race. The most striking finding of this poll, taken on the eve of one of the most contentious elections in a generation, is evidence that the 2000 election -- combined with pre-Election Day accusations of voter disenfranchisement in Ohio and Florida -- has poisoned the view of many Americans about the election system. ''I have a negative feeling about the Republicans because of the last election, and I think they've been working ever since that election to make sure he gets elected again -- they'll do almost anything to get him elected,'' Patricia Wilson, 66, an independent voter who lives in Philadelphia, said in a follow-up interview. ''I have that new disease P.E.A.D. -- the Pre-Election Anxiety Disorder,'' Ms. Wilson said. ''That fits me. I'm so upset I'm afraid I'm going to have a heart attack over it.'' Jason Babcock, 23, a Republican who lives in Tampa, said: ''I live in Florida, and my governor is his brother, so there is some concern. He wants his brother to remain president, so he'll go out of his way to make sure that happens. I don't know what he might or might not do, but he'll sure come up with something.'' The concern about voting particularly sharp among black voters, presumably reflecting both the recent voter suppression controversies in Florida and Ohio, as well as the history of black voter disenfranchisement that framed the civil rights movement. Thirty-six percent of all respondents said they thought there would be a deliberate attempt in some states to prevent blacks from voting, at a time when Democrats have accused Republicans in Florida and other states of trying to discourage turnout among African-Americans. There is a clear racial divide on this issue: 79 percent of blacks said they expected such a deliberate effort, compared with 28 percent of white respondents. ''I'm just afraid it's going to be some of the same things that happened in that last election,'' said Lois Powell, a black retired social worker from Toledo, Ohio, adding: ''I've already voted. I couldn't take the chance of something happening to my vote. I went down to the Board of Elections and I filled out my ballot and I pray that it will be counted.'' Overall, just one third of respondents said that they had a lot of confidence that the votes for president would be counted properly this November; 44 percent said they had some confidence, while 21 percent said they had little or no confidence. And 29 percent said they were very or somewhat concerned that they would encounter problems at the voting booth that would prevent them for voting, or block their vote from being counted. The poll also signaled the problems either Mr. Bush or Mr. Kerry might have in trying to govern such a divided nation: 52 percent said they were ''scared'' or ''concerned'' about what Mr. Bush would do if re-elected; 54 percent said the same thing when asked about the prospect of Mr. Kerry being elected. The poll suggests some marginal improvement for Mr. Bush, although -- as in almost all polls released this weekend -- the two men are effectively tied. Newsweek's survey had Mr. Bush ahead by 6 points among likely voters. In the Times/CBS News poll, among voters who say they are highly motivated and have taken a great interest in the campaign, Mr. Bush is supported by 50 percent, compared with 47 percent for Mr. Kerry. And in likely voters in battleground states, Mr. Bush is the choice of 49 percent of likely voters, compared with 47 percent for Mr. Kerry. How the Poll Was Conducted The latest New York Times/CBS News poll was based on telephone interviews conducted Thursday through Saturday with 920 adults throughout the United States. Of these, 824 said they were registered to vote. The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country. Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey. The results have been weighted to take into account household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, Hispanic origin, marital status, age and education. Based on the 2000 presidential vote, residents of heavily Republican counties, heavily Democratic counties and politically competitive counties were weighted to their proper share of the population. Eleven politically competitive states were oversampled for purposes of analysis and then weighted to their share of the population. Some findings regarding voting were additionally weighted in terms of an overall ''probable electorate,'' which uses responses to questions dealing with voting history, attention to the campaign and likelihood of voting in 2004 as a measure of the probability of respondents' turning out. In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults. For smaller subgroups, the margin of sampling error is larger. For instance, for registered voters it is plus or minus four percentage points. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results. Complete questions and results are available at nytimes.com/politics. THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE POLLS Correction:  November 2, 2004, Tuesday  An article yesterday describing the results of the most recent New York Times/CBS News poll reversed the results for one question. Fifty percent of poll respondents said George W. Bush legitimately won the 2000 election, and 45 percent said he did not."}