{"title": "Charges of Dirty Tricks, Fraud and Voter Suppression Already Flying in Several States", "body_text": "In Lake County, Ohio, officials say at least a handful of voters have reported receiving a notice on phony board of elections letterhead saying that anyone who had registered through a variety of Democratic-leaning groups would not be allowed to vote this year. In Pennsylvania, an official of the state Republican Party said it sent out 130,000 letters congratulating newly registered voters but that 10,000 were returned, indicating that the people had died or that the address was nonexistent. Mark Pfeifle, the Republican spokesman, said the numbers showed that in their zeal to register new voters, Democratic-aligned groups had committed fraud. And in Michigan, Secretary of State Terri Lynn Land said she had to put out a statement in mid-October about where to send absentee ballots after voters in the Ann Arbor area received calls telling them to mail the ballots to the wrong address. With lawyers and poll watchers descending on battleground states and the presidential race tight enough that every vote could count, elections officials say that charges of voter intimidation and voter fraud, on the street or in courtrooms, are flying more furiously than any one can remember in recent elections. Much of the tone has been set by a propaganda war of sorts between the parties, with the Democrats charging that efforts are being made to suppress the vote and Republicans warning against voter fraud or double voting. In part, the charges are designed by each party to get out their core supporters to the polls. But court battles already under way over such matters as who gets to cast provisional ballots show this is also a serious struggle that could continue in the courts after Election Day. Democrats have tried to walk a fine line. For weeks they made charges that Republicans were working to keep down turnout and deter newly registered voters. But as Election Day has approached, they have moderated their tone, assuring voters that all will be fine at the polls, mindful of surveys showing that reports of confusion can deter voters. In Philadelphia, where turnout among blacks is considered crucial to the Democrats winning Pennsylvania, state Democrats held a press conference last week where the Rev. Jesse Jackson assured voters there would be no disruptions at the polls. Michael Whouley, the get-out-the-vote expert at the Democratic National Committee, held a teleconference with reporters last week to insist that the reports of challenges and confusion at polling places were greatly exaggerated. ''American democracy is working,'' he said. Jenny Backus, another adviser to the D.N.C., said that early voting had gone smoothly, and that Election Day would too. ''For all the Republican talk of beware, beware, millions of Americans are having a perfectly pleasant voting experience,'' she said. Still, Democrats were putting out briefing papers outlining incidents they said were designed to suppress voting or intimidate voters. Republicans say they are trying to prevent people from voting twice in states like Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania, where in Philadelphia the number of registered voters is almost as high as the number of voting-age residents. Ed Gillespie, the Republican national chairman, has said that in some critical places registration is even higher than the number of eligible voters, though election officials say such discrepancies can result from people moving. Republicans also say they want to keep those ineligible, such as illegal immigrants, from voting. ''I'm astonished at the lack of concern with the fraud that exists out there,'' said Mindy Tucker Fletcher, an adviser to the Florida Republican Party. Republican supporters in Florida sought to capitalize on Democratic charges of voter intimidation with a radio advertisement over the weekend. ''Republicans won't let us vote? They say it to distract us,'' says the advertisement, which the Bush campaign said was not one of its own. The ad concluded, ''There is no one stopping you from voting, and if you pay attention to what these Democrats are doing instead of what they are saying, you'll vote Republican.'' Caught in the middle are elections officials, trying to sort out which complaints are real. ''I have had an election year I'd never thought I'd experience in my 21 years,'' said Jan Clair, the director of the Lake County Elections Board in Ohio. ''I've had to do so much damage control.'' Ms. Clair said she took solace from the fact that she had gotten only about five calls about the flier saying those who had registered through certain Democratic-leaning groups could not vote. She said the sheriff had gotten fewer than that. ''The majority of people realize that they were bogus on its face,'' she said. Still, she added, ''to have some campaign or candidate spill over into my business to create confusion, that really offends me.'' But her county, east of Cleveland, is not the only one facing problems. In Cleveland, elections officials say people claiming to be from the Board of Elections have gone door to door offering to retrieve absentee ballots -- election officials say there is no such delivery service; ballots must be mailed or dropped off in person. Common Cause, a nonpartisan group that runs a hot line for reports of problems like missing absentee ballots and long lines at polling places, reported yesterday that of 53,252 calls received nationwide, 8,658 have been from Florida, the state where the bitter recount took place in 2000. In fact, the parties are in full combat in Florida. Some Democrats last week seized on a BBC report saying that Republicans had obtained a list of 1,886 predominantly black and Democratic voters in Duval County and suggesting that Republicans could be planning to challenge those voters on Election Day. Asked about the report, Ms. Fletcher, the adviser to the Republican Party in Florida, said it was unfounded. She said that the list was created from returned mail the Republican National Committee sent to newly registered voters and that it showed that some newly registered voters did not have valid addresses. Florida Republicans on Thursday said they had determined that at least 925 felons had either already voted illegally in early voting or had requested absentee ballots. And Ms. Fletcher left open the possibility that the party intended to challenge ineligible voters at the polls on Election Day. ''It's really not a gray area at all,'' she said. \"You either want the laws to be enforced or not.\" Charles H. Lichtman, special lead counsel for the Kerry campaign in Florida, said Republicans were raising the threat of challenges ''to scare people away by talking about intimidation so there's a smaller turnout, which they think favors them.'' Seth Kaplan, spokesman for the Miami-Dade elections department, said the agency has heard of several complaints from harassed voters. ''We have heard sporadic reports of people attempting to inform voters, maybe offering assistance to voters who don't want it, but nothing systemic,'' Mr. Kaplan said. On Thursday, after concerns increased that some polling places would be clogged by challenges to voters, the Florida elections director, Dawn Roberts, sent a memorandum to county elections supervisors emphasizing that any challenges to voters must not delay others from voting and that a challenged voter should still be allowed to cast a provisional ballot that will be considered later by the county canvassing board. Challenges must be made in the form of written affidavits. THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: COMPLAINTS"}