{"title": "Clinton, at Little Rock Rally, Tries to Persuade Home State", "body_text": "Former President Bill Clinton returned home on Sunday night for the first time in months, but except for a few balloons, some letter-sized signs and a lone man carrying an anti-abortion sign outside the Statehouse Convention Center, you might never have known. Still recovering from heart surgery, Mr. Clinton had logged thousands of miles in the last week, rallying earlier in the day in Albuquerque on behalf of Senator John Kerry. But now, introduced by several Arkansas officials and the actor Danny Glover, he was among his own. ''So I had this little operation,'' he began, chuckling, on a stage set with haystacks, pumpkins and mums. Explaining that Kerry officials had asked him to cross the country to other states to campaign, he said he told them: ''Well, I'm sure not going to fly over Arkansas. I'm coming home.'' Speaking for about 30 minutes to a crowd of about 6,000 and looking rail-thin in a long, dark blazer and bluejeans, Mr. Clinton mounted an argument for Mr. Kerry's candidacy. He said that the reasons Mr. Kerry was not leading in Arkansas were Republican rhetoric on gun control and gay marriage, and voters' fear of switching leaders in the midst of a war. He dismissed the first two issues, saying, ''This election is not about guns and gay marriage'' to calls of ''Say it, Bill.'' As for the security issue, he said that Mr. Kerry's supporters needed to go out and persuade people that he was indeed the better candidate. ''I know a lot about this,'' he said in one of the evening's many references to his presidency. ''I did this for you for eight years.'' Mr. Clinton appeared roughly 10 blocks -- along a street bearing his name -- from the soon-to-open presidential library that gleams over the Arkansas River. His visit was the fulcrum in an 11th-hour push meant to catapult Mr. Kerry over the top. In 2000, Mr. Clinton did not campaign here for Al Gore, and many Democrats say that is one of the main reasons Mr. Bush won the state. For months, Arkansas had been a near-ghost town for presidential politics, with the candidates bypassing it on the stump and the campaigns spending their advertising dollars elsewhere. Democrats had all but written it off, and many Republicans had moved it into their win column. But after some polls suggested a tightening race, both sides intensified their efforts, transforming the state into a heaving landscape of dueling advertisements and counterpunching news conferences. Earlier in the week, television and radio stations began broadcasting several new Kerry advertisements paid for by Democrats and Democratic-leaning groups, some featuring Mr. Clinton. The state Republican Party ran three 30-second radio spots, two of them attacking the former president. In the advertisements, Republicans, who argue that Mr. Kerry is out of touch with voters in a socially and economically conservative state, have sought to portray Mr. Clinton as sharing more of the values of New York than of Arkansas, emphasizing that he has not lived in the state for more than a decade. Mr. Clinton, a former governor, shot back with his own Arkansas credentials on Sunday night, saying that the state had been better off economically when he was in Washington, and that ''in the last four years as a private citizen I created more jobs in Arkansas than the Bush administration ever did.'' Kerry officials also say that Arkansans, who have sent large numbers of troops to Iraq, have grown frustrated with Mr. Bush over the direction of the war as well as the economy. They hope that Mr. Clinton will energize core Democratic voters, including women and blacks, and help ''turn around some white men,'' as Rodney E. Shelton, the state director of Kerry's campaign, put it. But precisely how Mr. Clinton will affect the race here is unclear. He is still enormously popular in the state, political analysts say. Asked in a poll released on Wednesday by the University of Arkansas how he would go down in history, 53 percent of those responding chose ''outstanding'' or ''above average,'' while 25 percent answered ''average.'' But it is far from a given that the support Mr. Clinton enjoyed, especially among black voters, will transfer to Mr. Kerry. Rodney Evans, of Little Rock, speaking in the days before the former president's visit, said that although he had voted for Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore, this time he would vote for Mr. Bush because of his views on abortion. ''Honestly, that's weighed a lot into my considerations,'' said Mr. Evans, an elder at his church. Speaking of Mr. Bush, he added, ''I think he's a Christian man, I think he's a family man, I think he's concerned about the elderly.'' Mr. Evans said that he was not certain about Mr. Kerry's position on the issue, but that he looked at other issues like employment and welfare reform in making his decision about Mr. Clinton, who, like Mr. Kerry, is an abortion rights advocate. ''It may be kind of crazy to say,'' Mr. Evans, who is black, said, ''but I felt like he really wanted to help African-Americans.'' THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ARKANSAS"}