{"title": "Pitt's Bumpy Road May End at a B.C.S. Bid", "body_text": "One of the university's greatest players took shots at the program. The athletic director declined to offer a vote of confidence to the coach. The team needed overtime to beat Division I-AA Furman. So what's next at Pittsburgh? Well, quite possibly a slot in the Bowl Championship Series. The Panthers (5-2, 3-1 Big East) travel to Syracuse this weekend and then play host to West Virginia on Nov. 25 in their remaining conference games. If they win both, they're in a B.C.S. bowl as the Big East's representative. ''I'm tremendously proud of our players,'' Coach Walt Harris said in a telephone interview Friday. ''It would have been real easy to fold up our tents.'' After the Panthers lost to Connecticut, 29-17, on Sept. 30, Harris bore the brunt of some severe criticism. Part of it was residual after an underachieving 8-5 season last year, when the Panthers had the all-American wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald and the all-Big East quarterback Rod Rutherford. Much of the criticism this season started with Harris's decision in the Connecticut game to set up a field goal instead of throwing into the end zone late in the first half on a third-and-goal from the 12. Soon the program was being ridiculed in a local newspaper by Tony Dorsett, the Heisman Trophy winner who led the university to a national championship in 1976. When Harris's agent called for the university to extend the coach's contract, Athletic Director Jeff Long took no decisive action. Harris has two years remaining on his contract, which pays him about $600,000 a year. ''I really don't want to talk about all that stuff,'' Harris said. ''I made a commitment to myself and the team that I wasn't going to get involved in all that stuff. It doesn't really matter.'' Some growing pains appeared inevitable. Pitt lost Fitzgerald, Rutherford and five other offensive starters. Still, the Panthers had a chance to tie Nebraska on the game's final play, ground out overtime victories against Furman and Boston College, and scored 21 fourth-quarter points to beat Temple. But winning their final two Big East games is by no means a given, and the Panthers play at Notre Dame on Nov. 13. Harris is happy that his team has had a week off to prepare for the game at Syracuse on Saturday. Also, as the weeks go by, and West Virginia performs the way it did during a 35-30 victory at Rutgers on Saturday, the luster peels away from the Mountaineers. Also, Harris knows that his young team is getting better. ''You can't say we're as young of a football team as we were seven games ago,'' Harris said. ''Our mistakes are fewer. Our kids have fought through the negative things surrounding us. We're excited to be at this point, but it doesn't mean we've arrived. We've got a lot of maturing to do.'' The B.C.S.: Knowing the Score The seemingly constant changes in the Bowl Championship Series formula have created different philosophies on how to get to the top of the polls. Oklahoma Coach Bob Stoops had his team score a touchdown against Kansas two weeks ago with 35 seconds left to boost the final score to 41-10. Utah, on the other hand, has pulled its star quarterback, Alex Smith, in every game because of lopsided scores. Stoops said he probably should have gone in from the 1 instead of having his quarterback take a knee against Texas Tech in the waning seconds of a 28-13 victory. For Stoops, these calls come down to impressing the news media members and coaches who vote in the polls, which comprise two-thirds of the B.C.S. formula. ''Not everyone out there voting sees everything and has 18 TV's watching all the games,'' Stoops said yesterday in a teleconference. ''All they can do is read box scores or look at scores of the game. That being the case, it forces you in a case you may have taken a knee before, you're forced to try to score.'' Utah Coach Urban Meyer said he was still uncertain how the B.C.S. formula worked. ''Someone tells me our rank each week,'' Meyer said in a telephone interview yesterday, ''and then I go worry about our punt protection.'' Meyer said that none of his starters played in the fourth quarter of a 46-16 victory over North Carolina. Few even played in the third quarter. He said he was tempted to keep them in, but he needed to keep his team healthy. He said he would never leave his players in longer to pad a score. ''If you've got a respected coach like Bob Stoops saying that, the system is a failure,'' Meyer said. ''You've got to blow it up and start over. That's not what college football is.'' Stoops said that he would never run reverses or throw the ball while ahead by a big margin, but he saw no harm in running his normal offense. ''I'm responsible for this program,'' Stoops said. ''I'm not sure if it helps us or not in the B.C.S. picture, but you do your best to improve your position.'' Top Florida Teams Can't Bask There are plenty of factors to explain why Florida's three Division I-A superpowers lost on the same day for the first time since 1978. But it is difficult to tie these results together: Georgia beat Florida, 31-24, on a neutral field; Miami lost at North Carolina, 31-28; and Florida State lost at Maryland, 20-17. The University of Florida is an emotional mess after Ron Zook's firing. Florida State cannot find a consistent quarterback. Miami has been hit by injuries and faces the reality of being in the Atlantic Coast Conference, which means that teams like Rutgers are replaced on the schedule with teams like North Carolina. But Zook said he could not find a unifying reason for why all three teams lost. ''I think it's a coincidence in the way that it happened,'' Zook said in a conference call yesterday. If there is a unifying theme, it could be this: the teams are flawed. Miami's rush defense is No. 66 nationally. Florida State is No. 65 in passing offense, and Florida is No. 54 in total defense. INSIDE COLLEGE FOOTBALL"}