{"title": "Trainers Are Thriving by Getting Others Ready for Their Close-Up on TV", "body_text": "Jasmine Huda worked as an associate producer, finding and preinterviewing guests for Fox News in Washington. But what she really wanted was to be in front of the camera. So, after leaving Fox in September, Ms. Huda, 26, decided to get some media training at Qorvis Communications, the politically connected public affairs firm in Washington. A media environment of round-the-clock news shows and a seemingly insatiable demand for talking heads is creating new opportunities for media trainers. Traditionally, media training was offered by large public relations firms like Burson-Marsteller and Hill & Knowlton. Those companies now face lots of competition -- from independent shops and former reporters in business for themselves to midsize firms like Qorvis. Paul Holmes, editor of The Holmes Report in New York, an electronic newsletter for the public relations industry, said he had no statistics, but that it seemed to him that there had been increase in former television anchors, reporters and producers who had become independent media trainers. And virtually all the big firms offer media training, usually by experienced former reporters and TV newspeople, he said. ''You lose your job as a journalist or get hungry for better pay, and you start a media training practice or get hired by a P.R. firm,'' he said. ''Some of them have very good in-house media training facilities with lots of former reporters on staff, mock TV studios, the whole nine yards. But I'd say there's only a half-dozen firms that do a really good job.'' The Web is becoming a popular advertising tool for former reporters now in the training business. Many promote themselves with lines like ''ex-reporter covered stories you remember,'' or ''former journalist has trained hundreds of spokespeople and execs.'' Sallie L. Gaines, a vice president at Hill & Knowlton in Chicago, says media training has always been a big business for the agency, especially executives who want to learn better crisis communications. After recent financial scandals and other events rocked the business world, it does seem that more companies at least anticipate communicating with the media in a crisis, she said. But much of their business still comes from people who were caught unprepared. ''We are getting more companies wanting to be prepared for a crisis, but usually what happens is a crisis hits, and a company calls us because we're known,'' she said. ''Typically, we get called afterwards and the longer after, the worse it is. The first 24 hours is most important.'' Qorvis, which handles public relations in the United States for Saudi Arabia, recently opened its own mock television studio in Washington to capitalize on what it perceives as a growing demand for media training. A firm with about $17 million in yearly revenue, Qorvis is targeting niche clients such as executives facing investigative hearings or academics and print reporters who are increasingly called to comment on talk shows. So what do they learn? A lot of the time, just the experience of being exposed to the lights, camera and action is important, Ms. Donaghy said. Other times, trainers stress the need to speak in sound bites with a clear message, or not to dart the eyes and shift around. And they also discuss how to get the best interview possible. ''I've been on the other end of it where you need quotable guests,'' said Nina Donaghy, who joined Qorvis this year from the BBC in London. ''I know why you keep booking the same people again and again -- people who are reliable, in terms of sound bites and looking presentable.'' For Ms. Huda, who was trained by Rich Masters, a managing director at Qorvis, her instruction involved a few hours of taping as she read stories and conducted mock interviews. She is hoping the confidence that the training gave her will help her land a job as an on-air television news reporter. ''It only takes seconds for someone to form an opinion about you on the air,'' Ms. Huda said. ''The training showed me some tricks and techniques to come across as polished and informed.'' For some critics, more media training is not good news. Sheldon Rampton, research director for the Center for Media and Democracy based in Madison, Wis., said the problem with media training -- especially in crisis management -- is that it's more about presentation than facts. He said crisis management teaches executives to stay on message and to be nice. ''There's a lot less candor,'' Mr. Rampton said. ''People are so disciplined about staying on message, you're getting canned talking points rather than something genuinely informative.'' MEDIA"}