{"title": "Ball Bounced the Right Way Because Lewis Was Ready for It", "body_text": "SOME people surely called it luck  good luck for the Giants, bad luck for the Vikings -- when the backward pass from Daunte Culpepper bounced off Mewelde Moore's hands onto the Metrodome's artificial turf and Giants linebacker Kevin Lewis pounced on it. Lewis then hurried 16 yards to the Vikings' 22-yard line and, moments later, the Giants had a quick 3-0 lead that ignited a 34-13 rout of the Vikings yesterday. But to the Giants, it wasn't luck at all. It was their coaches' awareness and repetition, and Lewis's alertness and recognition. ''We knew that play is part of the Vikings' package,'' said Lewis, the middle linebacker, who had primarily been a special-teams player during his first four seasons. ''All week my linebacker coach, Billy Davis, and our coordinator, Tim Lewis, kept telling us as we watched film how often the Vikings used that play.'' In other games, Culpepper had thrown that pass to four different players that Lewis identified as ''30, 23, 81 and even 84.'' Numbers, not names. That's how defensive players know the opposing team's offensive players: 30 was Moore, the rookie running back; 23 was running back Michael Bennett; 81 was wide receiver Nate Burleson; and 84 was wide receiver Randy Moss, the most feared Viking, who hardly played yesterday after being listed as probable despite a pulled hamstring. On Minnesota's fourth play, Lewis suddenly saw the ball bounce away from the Viking wearing No. 30. ''I didn't know it was a free ball,'' Lewis said. ''All I knew was that it was on the ground, and when a ball's on the ground, we go for it. There were five other guys behind me going for it too. That's the way we're coached. Turnovers are our brand of football. We need to get 'em and not let them get 'em.'' And as the Giants rebounded from last Sunday's 28-13 loss to Detroit, that brand of football has created a 5-2 record dominated by a plus-12 turnover ratio -- 18 takeaways and only 6 giveaways going into Sunday's return to Giants Stadium against Chicago. Aside from their won-lost record, the Giants' plus-12 turnover ratio is the most obvious imprint of Coach Tom Coughlin and his staff in taking over a team that had a 4-12 record last season and not much football discipline: too many lost fumbles, too many interceptions, too many thoughtless penalties. Had Culpepper's pass been thrown forward, it would have been just another incompletion. But when it was ruled a fumble off a lateral (and ruled a fumble again after further review of the Vikings' challenge), the Giants had the ball. ''Kevin's play was interesting,'' Coughlin said, ''because we were preparing for the bubble screen. We knew that was right on the edge as we were preparing for it all week long. Kevin did an outstanding job preparing for that. It was a lateral, he stayed with it and it turned into a big turnover. That was a heads-up play.'' In the locker room at halftime, with the Giants clenching a 20-0 lead, Tim Lewis and Davis told Kevin Lewis, ''Great play.'' It was the biggest play in Lewis's five seasons with the Giants since being signed as an undrafted free agent out of Duke before the 2000 season. Two seasons ago, he recovered two fumbles and forced one. This season, after the Giants had purged last season's linebackers, he emerged as the starting middle linebacker. And yesterday he made the big play that the Vikings never recovered from. ''I'd seen that play before,'' Lewis said with a laugh. ''When I was at Duke, Wake Forest loved that wide-receiver screen. They'd run six a game.'' In the Vikings' 5-1 start, Culpepper had thrown 19 touchdown passes and only 3 interceptions. Against the Giants, he threw for one meaningless touchdown and two interceptions while playing mostly without Moss, who tip-toed through the first half without a reception. In the second half, he stood on the sideline. ''It started to stiffen up on him,'' said Vikings Coach Mike Tice, referring to Moss's hamstring. ''We didn't want to take a chance of him hurting it again. We've got to find a new personality until Randy is healthy, because the way we used to do things when Randy was healthy doesn't work when Randy is not healthy.'' One thing that didn't work for the Vikings was the backward pass that got away. ''I was miffed why the player didn't cover the ball, didn't play through the whistle,'' Tice said. ''Maybe it was loud, maybe he thought the whistle blew, maybe he got lulled into thinking it was a forward pass and a drop. But we didn't cover the ball.'' Instead, Kevin Lewis covered the ball and hurried 16 yards with it. And there was no luck involved. Sports of The Times"}