{"title": "Red-Zone Forays Put Giants in the Black", "body_text": "The Giants did not exactly become an offensive juggernaut in Sunday's victory over Minnesota. They gained 283 yards, collected 83 yards in penalties from the Vikings and absorbed five sacks, and quarterback Kurt Warner fumbled three snaps. How those numbers translated into a 34-13 victory, with no defensive touchdowns to pad the numbers, was a testament to the Giants' ability to score on all of their opportunities, particularly the ones delivered to them by the Vikings' three turnovers. Heading into the game, the Giants were second to last in the N.F.L. in scoring from inside the 20. On Sunday, the Giants scored all five times they reached the red zone. ''The most encouraging thing was when we got opportunities in the red zone, we ran the ball,'' running back Tiki Barber said. ''Four rushing touchdowns, that was big for us.'' In the first quarter, when a 12-yard completion to Amani Toomer set the Giants up with a first-and-goal from the 8, Barber ran for 6 yards on first down and slashed in for the touchdown on second down. Barber scored again on second-and-goal from the 5 in the second quarter. His backup, Mike Cloud, scored twice in the second half, from the 1 and from the 2. On 21 previous trips inside the 20 this season, the Giants had scored only 7 touchdowns. The most noticeable difference from previous games was the absence of running back Ron Dayne, who was not on the active roster. Giants Coach Tom Coughlin insisted that was not because of Dayne's failures in short yardage, but because of personnel needs in other areas. But the Giants' success at the goal line with Barber and Cloud was impossible to ignore. Barber said part of the success was not bunching their formations to signal an obvious run up the middle, which is usually what greets Dayne's entrance into a game. On Barber's second touchdown, the Giants used a spread formation. The call was to throw to tight end Jeremy Shockey if the Vikings covered him one on one, or hand it to Barber if they played a zone. Barber sliced through the middle of that zone for the score. ''We left our best players on the field as if it were a regular situation, and we were able to take advantage of some of the mismatches,'' Barber said. Perhaps the best result for the Giants was being able to take a significant lead in the game and stash the overworked Barber on the bench. Late in the third quarter, Cloud replaced him and rushed for 55 yards on 9 carries, after getting only 9 carries in the previous six games combined. Cloud, though, took a hard hit in the fourth quarter, and Barber had to re-enter the game. Afterward Cloud said he got ''dinged.'' It was not enough to dampen his enthusiasm. ''It felt really good,'' Cloud said. ''When you haven't played in so long, it feels good to get some touches.'' It turned out well for the Giants too, for a change. PRO FOOTBALL"}