{"title": "Secret of Success Lies in Minnesota", "body_text": "From the fourth play of the game, when a small band of Giants seized an opportunity as the ball bounced free on the Minnesota Vikings' turf, the Giants played Sunday as if they were the only ones in on a secret. The prelude had been filled with so much bluster, including the Vikings' prediction that they could not lose three straight at home to the Giants, and the game was filled with the artificial noise that makes the Metrodome sound like the inside of a muffler. In the middle of the din stood the Giants' stubborn nonbelievers, who took it all in and spit it back out. Linebacker Kevin Lewis grabbed that fumble, which the Vikings did not recognize, on the fourth play, and the Giants used it to launch themselves to a 34-13 victory. When the game was over, with Minnesota's only points cosmetically added in the fourth quarter, the fans were gone and the Vikings were left to figure out what had happened. But the Giants knew. After all, they have done it three straight years. ''I think it's that closeness that you know no one's out there for you,'' Lewis said. ''You know the crowd's fighting for them, wanting them to win, and you just want to be a spoiler. You want to spoil their party.'' The Giants have built the foundation of their 5-2 record by blindsiding their hosts, and Sunday they added the Vikings (5-2) to their list of surprised victims that already included Green Bay and Dallas. The Vikings, though, had ample warning. Last season, a Giants team that would finish a pitiful 4-12 came in and defeated the 6-0 Vikings, 29-17. The year before, the Giants won here, 27-20. This performance was, if anything, more surprising. ''I've just been given the only good news from today,'' Vikings Coach Mike Tice said. ''The Giants are not on our schedule next year. Thank God.'' It started with the mystery fumble. Minnesota quarterback Daunte Culpepper threw a pass to his right that bounced off the hands of running back Mewelde Moore. Believing it was incomplete, Moore clapped his hands in frustration and let the ball bounce free. But Culpepper was in front of Moore when he threw it, making the pass a lateral and the ball live. It rocked for a moment on the turf before Lewis scooped it up, and the Giants took over on the Vikings' 22-yard line. The Giants did not turn the turnover into an instant cavalcade of points -- they lost 10 yards and Steve Christie kicked a 50-yard field goal -- but the trend had begun. The Giants forced a punt, then used a 38-yard pass interference penalty on cornerback Corey Chavous, who was trying to cover tight end Jeremy Shockey, to build a touchdown drive that ended in a 2-yard run by Tiki Barber. With 12 total yards of offense, the Giants had a 10-0 lead with 8 minutes 15 seconds left in the first quarter. This was only a week after they had lost a dispiriting game at home to Detroit and were accused by Coach Tom Coughlin of not preparing hard enough. The biggest turnaround came on defense, where the Giants forced the Vikings' top-ranked offense to come unhinged. ''They had our number today,'' Culpepper said. ''As you could see, everything that could have gone bad for us did. Everything that could have gone good for them did.'' Culpepper, who had the fumble on the backward pass tagged to him, also threw two interceptions, one at the end of the first quarter to safety Gibril Wilson and one in the third to cornerback Will Allen. Both led to Giants touchdowns. Early in the fourth quarter, the Giants were up by 34-0. By the time the attendance of 64,012 was announced in the fourth quarter, more than a third of the crowd had left. By the time the Vikings scored, with 9:01 to play, the fireworks and the Vikings' horn sound effects were bouncing off thousands more empty seats. The Giants trotted happily into their locker room with a victory that made very little sense on a statistics sheet. They gained a modest 283 yards, and quarterback Kurt Warner was sacked five times. And with the starting center, Shaun O'Hara, in a hospital with a leg infection, Warner also fumbled three snaps, although the Giants recovered them all. This all came against the team many believed to be the second-best team in the National Football Conference, behind Philadelphia. But to the Giants, it made perfect sense. ''Coach Coughlin gave a great speech last night, talking about the team and about the core and how you'll do anything for your teammates,'' said Shockey, who caught 3 passes for 60 yards. ''I saw a lot of that today from teammates. They made extra blocks on the field. They'd hold a guy up so another one could come in and make the play. Everybody is starting to get the picture here. ''Coach Coughlin is the main thing in this. No one really would imagine outside this locker room that we were going to be in the position we are now.'' That us-versus-the-world attitude carried the Giants into this game and out of Minnesota with a victory. The team, particularly the defense, spent the past week chewing on all the accolades being thrown at the Vikings. The loss to Detroit took the spotlight off the Giants, enabling them to seize the underdogs' role again. ''We were sick and tired of hearing about how good they are,'' Allen said. ''No doubt they've got a good offense. But we've got a good defense. We've got a good team. After a while, we don't want to hear about it. It makes you want to come out here and do this.'' Allen went on to say that the Giants do not care what anybody else says about them, a contradiction that did not seem to derail the sentiment behind it. At 5-2, the Giants can shrug off all the contradictions they want. What they do is not required to make sense. They are the only ones who have to understand the secret. EXTRA POINTS The biggest question marks entering the game was the health of Amani Toomer, the Giants' top receiver, and Randy Moss, the heart of the Vikings' offense. Both had hamstring injuries. Toomer played, making his 119th straight start as a Giant, and seemed to be at full strength. Moss lined up for a handful of plays, mostly as a decoy. By the second half, Moss was out of uniform. Toomer caught 3 passes for 31 yards. Mike Cloud, the Giants' backup running back, was forced out of the game because of a late hit, so Tiki Barber, who thought his game was over, had to go back in. The late duty sent Barber over the 100-yard rushing mark for the fifth time this season, with 101 yards on 24 carries and 2 touchdowns. Cloud ran for 55 yards and 2 touchdowns. PRO FOOTBALL"}