{"title": "Steelers Expose Patriots' Mortality", "body_text": "They were flawless for a month of Sundays, beating back opponents and, really, conventional wisdom itself. The New England Patriots had become football's sterling exception, a team that wove together victories while most of the N.F.L. lived week to week. But beneath a fast-fading sky, the Patriots played the kind of game that many did not think they had in them, imploding in a 34-20 loss to the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday at Heinz Field that shook up the American Football Conference hierarchy. Patriots quarterback Tom Brady stumbled. Cornerback Ty Law limped. The Patriots' 21-game winning streak ended amid a thousand swirling yellow towels and intermittent flashing bulbs. ''They outplayed us, and they outcoached us,'' Patriots Coach Bill Belichick said after New England's N.F.L.-record streak of 18 consecutive regular-season victories went quietly into the night. ''We didn't do anything the way we are capable of and Pittsburgh played an outstanding game. It's what you'd expect to happen when those two opposing forces collide.'' Brady, a two-time Super Bowl most valuable player, barely had time to settle in the pocket before Steelers would poke through holes and smack him around the backfield. When he tried to regain composure, there they were again, as if on an endless loop. Steelers linebacker Joey Porter made himself a permanent fixture in the Patriots' offense, chasing Brady and running back Kevin Faulk, who started in place of the injured Corey Dillon (bruised thigh). Whenever Porter made a meaningful play, he made a kicking motion with his right leg, scooping up grass and dirt with his cleats. His point was taken. The Patriots (6-1) bit the dust. ''A lot of people were saying, 'You guys haven't played anybody,''' Steelers receiver Hines Ward said. ''We were picked third or fourth in the division, but we proved a lot of people wrong.'' The Steelers (6-1) will have the chance to ruin another team's perfect season this Sunday, when they are host to Philadelphia (7-0). ''This just shows the nation that we're a good team in all facets,'' said running back Jerome Bettis, who rushed for 65 yards and a touchdown. ''But if we go out and lay an egg next week it's all for nothing.'' The Patriots did just that on Sunday. Brady threw two interceptions, including one that Steelers cornerback Deshea Townsend returned 39 yards for a touchdown at the end of the first quarter, giving Pittsburgh a 21-3 lead. It was Pittsburgh's third touchdown in a span of 3 minutes 33 seconds. The others came on touchdown passes from the rookie Ben Roethlisberger to receiver Plaxico Burress -- on a 47-yard deep ball, and on a 4-yard touch pass after Porter caused a Brady fumble. ''They all hurt,'' Belichick said of the scores. ''We didn't run well, we didn't throw well and we didn't play defense well. There was not a lot to build on.'' Belichick and his coaching staff usually have opposing quarterbacks for lunch, but Roethlisberger led a poised and proficient attack, throwing for 196 yards and completing 18 of 24 passes without an interception. But the Steelers relied mostly on the ground game, with 49 rushes, and the legs of Duce Staley. Running to the familiar chants of ''Duuuuuce!'' that once greeted him as a Philadelphia Eagle, Staley, who had 125 yards on 25 carries, ran hard between the tackles and briskly around them. One savvy fan held up a sign that read, ''The only 22 the Patriots will see is Duce,'' referring to Staley's jersey number and the end of New England's streak. Staley and Roethlisberger proved a lethal combination against the most complex defense in football. ''They bring guys in from all over the field,'' Roethlisberger said. ''The offensive line did a great job of protecting. Their defense is very complicated. It's all over the place.'' When the Patriots lost Law to an injured foot in the first quarter, it further depleted a defense that had grown accustomed to turning adversity into opportunity. But New England could not match Pittsburgh's aggressiveness. When the Steelers had the ball, they seemed to be a play away from a big strike. The Patriots, conversely, rarely looked so unsettled in the face of a pass rush. ''We got ahead in the game and that helped our guys a little bit,'' the Steelers' defensive coordinator, Dick LeBeau, said. ''We were able to get some pretty good pressure on them, I thought.'' Steelers defensive end Kimo von Oelhoffen said that ending New England's streak did not matter. ''What matters to me is that I know we are a better team right now,'' he said. If recent history is a judge, these two teams could meet again, as they did after the 2001 regular season, when the Patriots defeated the Steelers here in the A.F.C. championship game on the way to their first of two Super Bowl titles. Several Steelers remain from that team, including Ward, who called Sunday's victory ''a little bit of revenge.'' When Belichick met Steelers Coach Bill Cowher at midfield after the game, Cowher leaned in to congratulate him on all the Patriots have accomplished. They had not lost since a 20-17 defeat to the Washington Redskins on Sept. 28, 2003. In a sport of parity, Cowher understands how rare the Patriots' feat was. ''What they accomplished was phenomenal,'' Cowher said. ''I told Bill that I have so much respect for him and what they accomplished. It's a good football team and a class organization headed by a class guy. ''They will be back.'' PRO FOOTBALL"}