{"title": "Bush Victory Seems Certain; Margin Doesn't", "body_text": "O.K., so Texas is not a swing state. Senator John Kerry has never visited as the Democratic presidential candidate and only twice as the likely nominee, in March and April. President Bush has come more often, but, hey, it's his home. How certain is it that Texas's big chunk of electoral votes (34 this year, 2 more than in 2000) will go, once again, to its favorite son, former two-term Republican governor and presidential incumbent? Well, Charles Soechting, the Texas Democratic Party chairman, put it this way: ''If we win Texas this year, we may move the inauguration to Texas.'' But if the president's victory on Tuesday in Texas is not in doubt, sparing Texans an onslaught of television commercials, his plurality may be trimmed this time, some experts say. That would have implications for his popular vote nationwide and other political races in the state, including some fiercely contested Congressional contests. ''There wasn't that big a margin last time and he's not going to come anywhere near that,'' said Richard Stein, a professor of political science at Rice University, who said he had seen a ''phenomenal'' surge in voter interest in the election, whatever that might imply. Richard Murray, a professor of political science at the University of Houston and a leading Texas pollster, said Mr. Bush's prospects in the state had diminished. ''He's clearly not running as well as last time,'' Professor Murray said. In 2000, Mr. Bush beat Al Gore in Texas by 59 percent to 38 percent, with Ralph Nader taking 2 percent of the vote. This time, with Mr. Nader not on the Texas ballot, Professor Murray said some polls had projected a percentage in the mid-50's for Mr. Bush, with a likely margin of 600,000 to 800,000 votes over Mr. Kerry, rather than the 1.4 million of 2000. ''We continue to see him getting 5 percent below the vote in 2000,'' he said, with stronger showings in rural Texas and weaker support in Austin and other metropolitan areas. The latest Scripps Howard Texas Poll offered somewhat more comfort to the Republicans, giving Mr. Bush 58 percent to Mr. Kerry's 32, with 9 percent undecided and 1 percent preferring another candidate. The poll had a margin of sampling error of 3 percentage points. Professor Murray said Mr. Bush's showing in 2000 drew on his strength with independents and Democrats as a ''nonconfrontational governor.'' ''He's been more polarizing as president,'' he said. Republicans deride such projections. ''Fifty-five? No way,'' said Mike Baselice, a Republican pollster in Austin, offering to take a bet on the spot against that low a percentage for the president. ''What I'm seeing looks real similar to what I saw four years ago,'' he said. Alexis DeLee, a spokeswoman for the Texas Republican Party, said she was confident President Bush would better his numbers of 2000 ''as long as we have a fair election.'' ''Everything that George Bush stands for resonates well in Texas,'' she said. Mr. Bush won most of the state's newspaper endorsements, but Senator Kerry was the choice of The Corpus Christi Caller-Times and The Waco Tribune-Herald, close to Mr. Bush's ranch in Crawford, where the local Iconoclast also came out for his opponent, causing a furor. The Austin American-Statesman faulted the president for mistakes but cautiously backed him, angering partisans on both sides. How well Mr. Bush runs in Texas is expected to prove vital in five close Congressional races in districts redrawn by Republicans to help the party maintain or widen its 10-seat edge in the House of Representatives. ''It's hand-to-hand combat, fighting in the streets,'' said Kelly Ferro, a Democratic strategist in Austin. But Mr. Ferro said the Democrats had proved more resilient to the redistricting than the Republicans had expected. ''It wasn't supposed to be so hard for them,'' he said. One big question mark in Texas, as elsewhere, is the voter turnout and how it could skew the results. With Texas one of 23 states that allow early balloting, the turnout has been breaking records. By the end of Friday, after 12 days of early voting, more than 2.2 million Texans had cast ballots in person and by mail in the 15 most populous counties, far more than the 1.5 million who voted early over 14 days in 2000. In 2000, slightly more than one in five voters cast their ballots before Election Day. This year the figure reached nearly 30 percent. The votes remain untallied, but by accepted political wisdom, Democrats benefit more from high turnouts. ''The interest in the state is phenomenal,'' Professor Stein of Rice said. ''Normally 75 percent of voters say they will vote and under 53 percent ended up voting in 2000. Now 97 percent say they will vote.'' The Texas secretary of state, Geoffrey S. Connor, said about 13.1 million Texans were registered to vote, up from 12.4 million in 2000. But because of a population increase, Mr. Connor said, the percentage of registered voters as part of the voting-age population has declined slightly, to 82 percent from 85 percent four years ago. How many will actually vote is a crucial question. Among the closely watched voting groups are Hispanics, who constitute about a third of the population and are projected to split about 65-35 in favor of Mr. Kerry. In 2000, Hispanics accounted for less than 17 percent of the more than six million people who voted in Texas, said Lydia Camarillo of the Southwest Voter Registration Education Project, a nonpartisan group in San Antonio. This year, she said, the figure is expected to rise to 24 percent of those voting. The youth vote may also prove a vital factor. In 2000, only 25 percent of eligible voters from 18 to 25 voted in Texas, said Mary Dixson, associate director of the Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Participation at the University of Texas. Already, she said, more students at the university had cast ballots in early voting than voted at all in 2000. There have been a few glitches, with some voters complaining that the electronic machines seemed to be recording votes they had not cast. Election officials blamed careless handling of the scrolling wheel that controls the selections. ''That goes back to not taking time and hurrying through the process,'' said David Beirne, a spokesman for the Harris County Clerk in Houston. ''We're not issuing awards for the fastest voter. They need to take their time.'' THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: TEXAS Correction:  November 4, 2004, Thursday  An article on Monday about the outlook for the presidential balloting in Texas misstated the given name of a political science professor at Rice University who said there was a phenomenal amount of interest in the election and omitted part of his title. He is Robert Stein, not Richard, and is the dean of social sciences at Rice."}