{"title": "Evangelicals See Bush as One of Them, but Will They Vote?", "body_text": "For 30 years, conservative Christians have lectured the Republican Party that its halfhearted embrace of social conservative causes had left untold millions of churchgoing voters without enough motivation to go to the polls. Now many Christian conservatives say President Bush and his White House have done more to excite those promised voters than any previous administration, putting their predictions to a test. Even beyond the immediate issues about same-sex marriage, abortion or stem-cell research, several conservatives said, the election results could determine their power in the conservative movement and the Republican Party for years to come. ''Republicans were interested in our votes during the election, and then they tended to go away,'' said Dr. James C. Dobson, founder of Focus on the Family and possibly the most influential conservative Christian in the country. ''It changed because of George Bush.'' Other conservatives said they were eager to see the results. ''You couldn't ask for a candidate who is more publicly identified with people of faith than President Bush,'' said Grover Norquist, a conservative strategist who holds weekly meetings of allies in the movement. ''If they don't turn out inordinately for Bush, it would just become known that these guys don't vote.'' If Christian conservatives do not turn out at record levels, said John Green, a political scientist at the University of Akron, ''it is very likely that other factions in the Republican Party will blame them.'' In an interview on Friday, Dr. Dobson said that he had never felt so invested in an election. He said he was nervous, even though as a theological matter he knew it was in God's hands. ''I felt he wanted me this time to pour myself into this, no matter how much pain or stress or physical inconvenience, to try to influence this election,'' he said. ''God may have chosen a different track. I don't perceive it, but he might.'' The stakes are particularly high for Dr. Dobson. Until this year, he had never endorsed a presidential candidate, preferring to keep his public persona aloof from partisan politics to avoid damaging his authority on family matters, he said. ''I have been very reluctant to use my influence in the past,'' he said, ''because if you marry a politician, you could be a widow in four years.'' Turnout levels are nearly impossible to forecast, and polls suggest at least some mixed political emotions in the pews. Recent polls have put the number of evangelical Protestants supporting Mr. Bush at about 7 in 10, roughly the same level as polls showed four years ago, Professor Green said. But in a New York Times/CBS News poll in mid-September, before the debates, 48 percent said Mr. Bush was hiding something about Iraq and 15 percent said he was lying. Still, several prominent conservative Christians said that they are convinced this election will vindicate their long-held predictions that a social conservative candidate could bring millions of evangelical voters to the polls. Dr. Richard Land, president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the 16-million-member Southern Baptist Convention, called it ''beyond comprehension'' to think that evangelical Christians might fail to increase their turnout far more than other groups. Many evangelical churchgoers did not think of Mr. Bush as one of them in 2000, he said. ''Now they know he is the real deal,'' Dr. Land said. Dr. Dobson said evangelical Christians were ''more energized this time around than I have ever seen in my lifetime.'' But he added, ''I just don't know if it is going to be enough to counter Bruce Springsteen and Michael Moore.'' If Mr. Bush should lose, Dr. Land said, the Republican Party might turn away from their evangelical allies. But not for long, he argued. ''Without social conservatives, they don't have anything left but chiefs and no Indians,'' he said. THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CHRISTIAN RIGHT"}