{"title": "On the Final Sunday, Sermons Pulse With the Power of Spiritual Suggestion", "body_text": "A presidential campaign striking for its divisive religious issues and recurring themes of faith and morality harvested a final weekend in America's churches, synagogues and mosques as spiritual leaders urged worshipers to vote -- and some delivered barely veiled endorsements. As the candidates themselves made Scripture-laden appeals to congregations in swing states -- President Bush at a Catholic church in Florida and Senator John Kerry at a predominantly black Baptist church in Ohio -- many Christian ministers across the country devoted their sermons to tomorrow's election and its meaning for the nation's future. While polls showed that most voters had already made up their minds, the race was a dead heat and the votes of religious communities were vital to the outcome. America's faithful -- 158 million Christians, 6 million Jews, 3 million Muslims and a million Buddhists and others -- constituted the largest voting bloc, and the passions driven by religious issues have been extraordinary. Decorum, for the most part, was observed yesterday. Christian services visited by reporters in a dozen cities unfolded with the customary prayers, hymns and homilies. But there was an unmistakable political subtext to many of the proceedings -- coded admonitions from pulpits, or ''voter guide'' pamphlets, to choose a ''godly'' leader (Mr. Bush) or vote for ''change'' (Mr. Kerry). Among Catholics, there was no repetition of a Colorado bishop's recent warning that a vote for Mr. Kerry would amount to a sin. But many Catholic pastors emphasized in sermons that abortion, embryonic stem cell research and gay marriage, issues on which Mr. Kerry differs from Mr. Bush and which are anathema to the church, were ''nonnegotiable'' issues -- statements that amounted to endorsements of Mr. Bush. At a half-dozen Jewish services in New York and New Jersey on Saturday and in several Muslim gatherings in New York City on Friday, rabbis and imams also urged followers to vote but were far more reticent in speaking about the candidates; none offered advice on how to vote. Many Christian services yesterday were also neutral, and it appeared to have little to do with the federal law that bars tax-exempt organizations from endorsing candidates or taking sides on issues. ''We don't speak on political issues, per se,'' the Rev. Stephen Lien, pastor of Brentwood Presbyterian Church in Los Angeles, said with a reserve typical of many ministers. ''But we certainly encourage people to be politically active. God is not a Republican and God is not a Democrat.'' But there was no fear of tax-exemption goblins at the Baptist Worship Center in Philadelphia, a largely black congregation in a former supermarket, where Bishop Millicent Hunter was anything but neutral. She said she would not tell congregants how to vote, that she was simply ''sharing the facts'' -- then laid into Mr. Bush. Bishop Hunter said Mr. Bush had ''misled and mismanaged'' the country, taking it from a record surplus to a record deficit, and had ignored education, jobs and health care. ''We need a new direction for America,'' she proclaimed as 1,000 parishioners cheered and Pennsylvania's Democratic governor, Edward G. Rendell, smiled from the front row. Ms. Hunter said Mr. Kerry ''has a plan'' to create jobs, provide health care and prosecute the war in Iraq and against terrorism, and would raise the minimum wage and provide after-school programs for 3.5 million children. Ms. Hunter urged her congregation not to be misled by the president. ''George Bush proclaims himself a man with Jesus in his heart,'' she said. ''That is a manipulation tactic.'' At some conservative Christian services, barely veiled support for Mr. Bush was hard to miss. From a high-tech pulpit backed by two giant screens, the Rev. Wayne A. Barber, pastor of the Hoffmantown Baptist Church in Albuquerque, told a gathering of 300 worshipers that he had no need to mention any candidate by name because ''God has already told you'' the righteous thing to do. Mr. Barber offered a prayer for ''our president, our government,'' and led his flock in prayer. ''Let us pray that the things God stands for, such as life, and pro-life, such as marriage between a man and a woman, are upheld,'' he declared. ''Lord, pray for our election, that you be honored and glorified. That you will make this election such that there will be no question.'' At the Nativity of Our Lord Catholic Church in St. Paul, the Rev. Christopher Wenthe, addressing several hundred worshipers, did not mention any candidate or political party, nor did he use the word abortion. But few could have missed his meaning when he declared that love of humanity ''must begin with the protection of life, from conception to natural birth.'' A 10-page ''Voter's Guide for Serious Catholics,'' which parishioners could take as they left, was more explicit. It urged Catholics to ''eliminate from consideration'' any candidate who opposed church teaching on abortion, euthanasia, stem cell research, cloning or gay marriage. Outside the church, young women under the direction of a nun were placing on windshields copies of an ''official pro-life sample ballot.'' It carried a picture of a baby on one side, of Mr. Bush on the other. At the Calvary Chapel in Fort Lauderdale, an evangelical church with a racially diverse congregation, a guest speaker, Rick Green, a former Texas lawmaker who often talks to conservative groups, told 3,500 worshipers to ''vote for righteousness.'' He directed people to ''voter guides'' in the hallway. One, published by the Christian Coalition, claimed that Mr. Kerry supported abortion and gay marriage. (Mr. Kerry has said he opposes same-sex marriage.) Books, including ''America's Godly Heritage'' and ''Is America One Nation Under God?'' were on sale. On her way out, Maureen Crocco, 58, said of Mr. Bush, ''This is a man who lives out his faith, and I don't see anything wrong with that.'' At the First Assembly of God Church, an evangelical congregation in Des Moines, the Rev. John M. Palmer told 800 worshipers: ''I pray that God gives wisdom to every voter making choices, and that they will support individuals who uphold the sanctity of life. To choose individuals who are committed to biblical ways, and who will lead this nation with a biblical perspective.'' A brochure in the program asked, ''Why Must Christians Vote?'' and quoted Scripture in answer: ''When the godly are in authority, the people rejoice. But when the wicked are in power, they groan.'' Kelli Russell, 17, said she was for Mr. Bush. ''He believes what I believe and I support what he has done in office,'' she said. In Denver, it was the Day of the Dead at the Cameron Church, a United Methodist congregation that honors loved ones and ancestors on the last Sunday of October, on or close to Halloween. The altar was crowded with mementos, and music to ''wake the spirits'' was played. Most of the worshipers, though not all, were Kerry supporters, and some wore buttons proclaiming their allegiance. But the senior pastor, the Rev. Bill Kirton, was nonpartisan in his sermon, focusing on a scriptural beast in the Book of Daniel. ''If you are a liberal you are a beast, and if you are a conservative you are a beast to somebody,'' he said. He advised looking past the election to what he called things that matter. In Cleveland, the Rev. C. Jay Matthews, pastor of the Mount Sinai Baptist Church, a black congregation, recalled a personal political journey that had taken him from Mr. Bush to Mr. Kerry. ''I have supported this president, and I've been a leader in promoting his faith-based initiatives,'' Mr. Matthews said. He even met with the Republican national chairman, Ed Gillespie, on how to raise black votes. But his congregation did not go along, and he had second thoughts as the campaign in Ohio became bitter with negative attacks. ''One of the reasons I've been able to move away from this president and closer to Senator Kerry is that when I look at the Republican ads, that's not of God,'' Mr. Matthews told his congregation yesterday. ''How can you say you're the candidate of God and you're doing that stupid stuff?'' Many leaving the church said they thought Mr. Bush's religiosity had been cynically promoted. Rabbi Mark Kaiserman at Temple Emanu-El of West Essex in Livingston, N.J., took a similar posture on Saturday. ''The pulpit is not a place to tell people whom to vote for,'' Rabbi Kaiserman said. And Sheikh Ahmed Dewidar, imam of the Islamic Society of Mid Manhattan, said: ''Of course I never mention the Democrat or the Republican. I tell them to ask God to guide you to the right thing.'' THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: PULPITS Correction:  November 2, 2004, Tuesday  An article yesterday about political messages in sermons referred incorrectly in some copies to John Kerry's position on same-sex marriage, an issue important to Roman Catholics. Mr. Kerry does not support it, but supports the right to civil unions for same-sex couples."}