{"title": "Sweep Expected in Venezuela Vote", "body_text": "Allies of the Venezuelan president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, were expected to sweep crucial posts in nationwide regional elections on Sunday. Political analysts, pollsters and some opposition leaders have been predicting for weeks that the opposition would lose as many as 100 mayoral posts, including the one in the capital, Caracas, and as many as five governorships. Pro-Ch\u00e1vez governors already control 15 of 23 states, while opposition or independent mayors run 200 of 337 municipalities. The vote includes state assembly seats. Venezuela's opposition has been struggling to remain relevant since losing a referendum to recall Mr. Ch\u00e1vez in August. It blamed fraud for that loss, though diplomats and international monitors declared the election largely free of fraud. Some opposition leaders, citing the possibility of fraud on Sunday, called for a boycott. Others said that would hand Mr. Ch\u00e1vez regions that had been in opposition hands. ''You cannot tell people there's fraud and tell them to vote,'' said Ana Mar\u00eda Sanju\u00e1n, a political analyst at the Central University in Caracas. The abstentions, more prevalent among voters opposed to the government, and lackluster campaigns severely weakened several opposition candidates. Some, like the mayor of Caracas, Alfredo Pe\u00f1a, dropped out, leaving a close lieutenant of the president, Juan Barreto, poised to win. The election was expected to give Mr. Ch\u00e1vez's allies victories in the oil-rich state of Anzo\u00e1tegui. Opposition governors were expected to hold on to Zulia, the historic heart of the country's oil industry, and Carabobo, while adding Nueva Esparta, which had been in the hands of a government ally. Mr. Ch\u00e1vez told voters that expanding the government's power would help him push through contentious legislation, like a bill reining in private television stations, and other measures, like agrarian changes, that his detractors oppose. ''You know very well that I alone cannot transform this country,'' the president said in a recent speech. ''We need to be able to count on truly revolutionary mayors and governors.''"}