{"title": "Both Parties Are Getting Out the U.S. Vote in Israel", "body_text": "In the final hectic days of the American presidential campaign, the candidates have been no-shows in one battleground: Israel. Israel may not have electoral votes, but it does have an estimated 100,000 potential American voters, including a large chunk from critical swing states like Florida, Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania. And an estimated 10,000 Palestinian-Americans living in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip are eligible to vote. Republicans and Democrats here report a surge in voter interest, and cite several reasons: the nail-biting finish to the 2000 election, the close American-Israeli ties and the centrality of regional issues in the current campaign. As a result, both parties have run voter registration campaigns, efforts that increasingly can be done on the Internet. ''We are at an important stage in the war on global terrorism, and that is an issue that resonates in this neighborhood,'' said Kory Bardash, chairman of Republicans Abroad in Israel. A few weeks ago, in an Orthodox Jewish neighborhood in Jerusalem, a taxi traveled the narrow streets, broadcasting taped voting advice over a loudspeaker. ''You can vote even if you have never voted or registered before, and even if you never were in the United States,'' the tape said. ''All you need is a Social Security or a passport number.'' Mordechai Adler, a former Chicago resident, led the effort that focused on the close-knit religious neighborhoods in the city, where information spreads instantly by word of mouth. In these conservative communities, the voters favor President Bush over Senator John Kerry. One of the newly registered, a rabbi with a gray beard, said he had not lived in the United States since 1965 and had never voted, Mr. Adler recalled. But he did remember his last address in New York, which was required on the registration form. Mr. Adler said his campaign registered more than 10,000 voters. More than half were from New York, but about a quarter were from swing states with many electoral votes -- Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan -- and by now those voters have sent in their ballots. In the last several presidential elections, Jewish voters in Israel have favored the Democratic candidate over the Republican by around 80 percent to 20 percent, said David Froehlich, who runs the Federal Voting Assistance Program in Israel, and is a former chairman of Democrats Abroad in Israel. He acknowledged that Mr. Bush would make a much stronger showing this time, because of his support for Israel. In addition, Israel was one of the few countries to enthusiastically support the invasion of Iraq. But Mr. Froehlich still predicted that Mr. Kerry would capture 60 percent of the Israeli vote. Israel has one of the largest concentrations of United States citizens living abroad, large enough to potentially tip the balance in some states where the race is very close. Israel could have as many as 6,000 potential voters from Florida, the parties estimate. Four years ago, the state's recount gave Mr. Bush the presidency by 537 votes. In 2000, as many as 20,000 ballots were cast from Israel, Mr. Froehlich said. He said he expected the number to double this year. On the campaign trail, Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry have portrayed themselves as strong friends of Israel, and have criticized the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, now hospitalized. Mr. Bardash held more than 30 voter registration events to seek Republicans from swing states. His group focused on Americans clustered in several areas, including Jerusalem, Raanana, a suburb of Tel Aviv, and the Gush Etzion settlement bloc in the West Bank. ''When we found someone from Cleveland, we were very aggressive, asking them, 'Do you know anyone else from there?''' he said. He said his group registered 2,000 voters from Ohio, 1,500 from Florida and 750 from Pennsylvania. ''I wouldn't turn anybody away, but when you look at the electoral map, some places are hugely important,'' he said. ''One vote from Ohio is worth 100 from New York.'' Meanwhile, Palestinian-Americans have leaned toward the Republican Party, and Mr. Bush's father was a particular favorite because he was seen as taking a tough stance with the Israelis in the early 1990's, when he was president. Many expected the son to be similar. ''Four years ago my friends and I were so excited when Mr. Bush won,'' said Abdul Jawad Jamalalddin, 40, a United States citizen who said he voted for Mr. Bush in 2000. ''But we've all been very disappointed. He supports Israel on every issue.'' Mr. Jamalalddin lives in Fresno, Calif., but was visiting his family in the West Bank town of Deir Debwan, where at least half of the residents hold United States citizenship. Worldwide, an estimated 4.6 million Americans, including military personnel, live abroad and more than half are eligible to vote, the Association of Americans Resident Overseas said. Small numbers do vote, and their votes are not always counted, said Mr. Froehlich. He said sometimes they filed late or in quantities that were so small that state election officials overlooked their votes if they could affect the outcome. But with the 2000 race so close, organizers overseas are determined to get a big turnout this year. ''The stakes are very high, and we learned last time that every vote counts,'' Mr. Bardash said."}