{"title": "Why Every American's Voice Should Be Heard", "body_text": "To the Editor: As this nation heads into the most important election of our lifetime, I want to share a story with those Americans who do not intend to vote. You have heard the news about the more than 1,100 marines and soldiers who have been killed in Iraq. I had not personally experienced the pain and enormous loss of each of those brave Americans -- until Sept. 14, 2004. That was the day my brother, Maj. Kevin Shea of the Marines, was killed by a rocket attack outside Falluja. It was his 38th birthday. That day started out like any other. I went to work and sent Kevin an e-mail message wishing him a happy birthday and kidding him about how old he was getting. Kevin had been in Iraq for seven months and was expected to return home in several weeks. Sept. 14 was also the day of the primary in Washington State. I left work and went to a church gymnasium near my home where I filled out my ballot and left feeling, in some small part, that I, too, was serving my country. I then drove home to care for my 10-month-old daughter while my wife attended a meeting. I was in my kitchen when I learned that Kevin was dead. When the phone rang, the voice on the other end was that of a Marine chaplain who had accompanied the marines to Kevin's house to inform his wife of his death. I asked about my parents in Washington, D.C. He told me that my mom and dad were being informed by marines in dress blues. (I learned later that my mother would not let them in the house; my father was not home because he was volunteering at a primary election location.) With that one phone call, the reality of the Iraq war hit home. Now, when I read about the death of a soldier or a marine, I can visualize the ripples of grief, pain and anger that will immediately spread through the family and friends. I will be voting in this election, and I sure hope my guy wins. But more important, I hope that all citizens of this great country will recognize their duty to vote. The inconvenience and hassle are a small sacrifice compared with the sacrifice of at least 1,100 other citizens like my brother. Dan Shea  Seattle, Oct. 28, 2004"}