{"title": "Owens Breaks Tackles and Burns Bridges as Eagles Win", "body_text": "EAGLES 15, RAVENS 10 He had read the comments on the Internet and watched television, and real or imagined, the harsh words had their effect. Eagles receiver Terrell Owens is not one to let a slight, or anything else, slide by without a comment. On Sunday, however, he was in danger of being silenced by the Ravens' smothering defense and the Eagles were at risk of losing a defensive struggle and being beaten for the first time this season. But it would take an awfully large muzzle to keep Owens's prodigious talent and tongue quiet for an entire game. After a quiet first half against Baltimore, Owens engineered an 11-yard tackle-breaking, game-deciding touchdown in the fourth quarter as the Eagles went on to a 15-10 victory over the Ravens. Owens punctuated the touchdown with a touchdown dance that mocked the one linebacker Ray Lewis performed, on among other occasions, when he was introduced before Baltimore's Super Bowl victory three years ago. Owens explained the dance with a broad smile, calling Lewis a good friend and saying, ''He's a highlight film, like I'm a highlight film.'' Later, he announced: ''If I score, everybody knows I'm going to try to do something exciting. I think Shannon Sharpe said it best: If you don't like what I do, stop me from getting in the end zone.'' Lewis, the league's dominant defensive player, clearly had another view, first saying he did not see the dance, but then adding: ''If you are going to play a football game, don't be a coward and wait until you make one play and do something. Just play football. What's flattering is that he has me on his mind when he's at home.'' Actually, this kind of game was exactly what Owens had in mind when he forced his way out of Baltimore after he was traded to the Ravens during the off-season by the San Francisco 49ers. Lewis had criticized Owens for that, but Owens, who has already had five 100-yard games, has given the Eagles the spark the offense has long needed. ''This is what I fought for,'' he said. ''I think everybody should be able to see the picture now.'' The victory boosted the Eagles to 7-0 for the first time in franchise history. New England's loss to the Steelers on Sunday left Philadelphia as the only unbeaten team in the N.F.L. By focusing on Lewis, Owens took aim at a star as big, perhaps bigger, than himself. Owens said that he had read comments by Ravens players who said they had shut him down last year when Owens was still in San Francisco. So Owens had planned multiple touchdown dances. The Ravens had allowed the fewest points a game in the league entering this week. They used rolling coverage on Owens early in the game. With their offense handicapped by the absence of three Pro Bowl players -- running back Jamal Lewis, tackle Jonathan Ogden and tight end Todd Heap -- much of the game was lacking offensive production. The first four scores were field goals, and the quarterbacks combined for only 140 yards passing in the first half. With the Eagles leading, 9-3, early in the fourth quarter, the Ravens drove into Eagles territory before running back Chester Taylor fumbled. Until then, the game had gone exactly the way Ravens Coach Brian Billick could have hoped, with his offense minimizing mistakes and letting the defense dictate the game. The fumble opened the door for Philadelphia. Owens's touchdown was the first of the game and was not scored until more than five minutes of the fourth quarter had elapsed, but it was a beauty. A few plays earlier, Owens ran a route on which he was covered by Ravens cornerback Gary Baxter. Baxter told Owens that he would not score on him. So on the touchdown, Owens caught a short underneath pass at about the 9-yard line. The Ravens were playing tight man-to-man, but Owens broke Baxter's arm tackle, changed direction and accelerated to the corner of the end zone. Baxter refused to explain the play after the game, but cornerback Deion Sanders, a guy who knows something about playing to the cameras, did not seem troubled by Owens's style. ''You are starting to see the best of him because he is winning,'' he said. ''T.O. is good for the game. He brings a lot of flavor to a somewhat boring sport.'' PRO FOOTBALL"}