{"title": "Cleared Leader To Face Appeal In Zimbabwe", "body_text": "Zimbabwe intends to appeal the acquittal of the nation's political opposition leader on charges of plotting to kill President Robert G. Mugabe, a government-controlled newspaper reported Sunday. The newspaper, The Sunday Mail, quoted the acting attorney general, Bharat Patel, as saying that the acquittal on Oct. 15 of Morgan Tsvangirai, the leader of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change, ''has many flaws, and we don't think it should stand unchallenged.'' Mr. Patel said the government would file to overturn the verdict in about two weeks. The newspaper quoted him as saying that among other aspects of the decision, the government would challenge the court's ruling as to what constituted treason. Mr. Patel's statement contradicts an earlier declaration by Zimbabwe's justice minister, Patrick Chinamasa, that the government would accept the court's decision even though its view was that Mr. Tsvangirai had been ''wrongly acquitted.'' Mr. Tsvangirai, 52, was arrested and charged with treason more than two years ago after the government produced a grainy videotape in which he was alleged to have discussed the ''elimination'' of Mr. Mugabe with Ari Ben-Menashe, a Montreal political consultant. Defense lawyers later said that Mr. Ben-Menashe had been under contract to the Mugabe government at the time and had been hired to frame Mr. Tsvangirai in advance of elections in 2002 in Zimbabwe, which Mr. Tsvangirai's Movement for Democratic Change lost. After a yearlong trial, a High Court judge ruled on Oct. 15 that the government had failed to prove its case. Mr. Tsvangirai said then that he hoped his acquittal would bring about a ''national reconciliation'' of the country's political crisis. Since then, Mr. Tsvangirai has been barnstorming southern Africa, lobbying regional leaders to press Mr. Mugabe to change Zimbabwe's electoral process before national elections scheduled for next March. Mr. Mugabe has waged a campaign to suppress political dissent in advance of those elections."}