{"title": "Arafat Absent: What to Do In the Interim?", "body_text": "The Israeli cabinet and the Palestinian officials held separate gatherings on Sunday, but dealt with the same question: how to respond to the absence of Yasir Arafat, who remains hospitalized in France with an undiagnosed illness. Israel's prime minister, Ariel Sharon, told his cabinet that the ailment that afflicts Mr. Arafat, the Palestinian leader, had not altered plans for a unilateral Israeli withdrawal of soldiers and Jewish settlers from the Gaza Strip, which is scheduled for next year. However, Mr. Sharon and his aides raised the possibility that new Palestinian leadership could open the door to the negotiations envisioned under a Middle East peace plan known as the road map, which collapsed shortly after it was introduced last year. ''If and when a new leadership emerges, and fulfills its obligations, then we would be willing to return to the road map,'' said Ranaan Gissin, a spokesman for Mr. Sharon. ''The opportunity is there. It depends on whether the Palestinians seize it. Without Arafat, we believe the chances would be much greater.'' Mr. Sharon has refused to deal with Mr. Arafat, contending that he encourages violence against Israel and is not a reliable partner for peace negotiations. While disagreeing, some Palestinians saw Mr. Arafat's absence as a chance to demonstrate a standfast government. ''We are now talking about how we should prove that we are a mature and responsible nation and that we are capable of remaining united and of withstanding the difficult new circumstances,'' said Ziad Abu Ziyad, a Palestinian legislator. Four years of Israeli-Palestinian fighting have extinguished virtually all political contacts between the sides. With Mr. Arafat sidelined indefinitely, Israelis and Palestinians have raised a wide range of possibilities about how the situation could play out. Some say that if Mr. Arafat passes from the scene, the two sides could find a way out of the current bloodletting and reopen some form of dialogue. Others say that the Palestinians could face internal battles in choosing new leadership, contributing to further lawlessness in Palestinian areas and continued conflict with Israel. Israel's chief of military intelligence, Maj. Gen. Aharon Zeevi-Farkash, told the cabinet that new Palestinian leadership might try to persuade armed Palestinian factions to declare at least a temporary cease-fire with Israel, Israeli radio reported. However, Israel has been skeptical that such truces can hold. One result, the general said, would be increased pressure on Israel to coordinate its Gaza withdrawal with the Palestinians, which Mr. Sharon has resisted. Israel says it will allow Mr. Arafat to return to his compound in Ramallah on the West Bank after his medical treatment in France. However, Mr. Sharon told his cabinet that if Mr. Arafat died, he would not be buried in Jerusalem, which is his long-expressed wish. Israel seized the eastern part of the city in the 1967 war and annexed it, a move that has never been recognized internationally. The Palestinians are seeking East Jerusalem for the capital of a future state. Mr. Arafat underwent additional tests on Sunday at the Percy Army Teaching Hospital southwest of Paris, and aides said he was feeling better. However, doctors are not expected to give a diagnosis of his illness until Tuesday or Wednesday, Palestinian officials said. Mr. Arafat has had a low blood platelet count, and doctors have conducted tests to check for cancer, a viral infection and other ailments, aides said. They say initial tests, at least, have indicated that he does not have leukemia. Salam Fayyad, the Palestinian finance minister, told The Associated Press that he had spoken with Mr. Arafat by telephone. ''Arafat told me: 'I am O.K. I am feeling well. Please tell my brothers there that I am doing well,''' said Mr. Fayyad, who is in the West Bank. ''This phone call is clear proof that President Arafat is fully aware of what is going on around him.'' Palestinian officials have sought to strike a balance since Mr. Arafat was airlifted Friday from his West Bank compound and flown to France. They want to demonstrate that Palestinian institutions are still working despite the absence of Mr. Arafat, who has played a dominant role for decades. However, they do not want to give the impression that they are usurping power while he is away, and they are acting on the assumption that he will return to his former role. The Palestinian prime minister, Ahmed Qurei, convened the National Security Council, a body that Mr. Arafat leads. The Palestinian Legislative Council also met Sunday. Mr. Arafat emerged as the dominant Palestinian leader in the late 1960's, and no other Palestinian can approach his stature. He embodies the quest for statehood, even among Palestinian critics of his leadership. On the Israeli side, Mr. Arafat is almost universally despised, and many hold the view, or at least the wish, that relations between the sides could greatly improve when he is gone. But Shlomo Avineri, a political science professor at Hebrew University, said the departure of Mr. Arafat would not instantly transform the Israeli-Palestinian relationship. ''It's not just a question of Arafat's personality -- this is too simplistic,'' he said. ''I believe there will have to be fundamental changes in Palestinian attitudes, and that is not going to happen overnight, even with a new leadership.''"}