{"title": "In the Last Lap, Joking, Jockeying and Hiding the Sweat", "body_text": "One of the best indications of President Bush's mood, his aides say, is the degree to which he indulges his boyish humor and enthusiastic impatience. So it was telling, they said, that as he crisscrossed the country in the last few days awaiting the nation's judgment, the candidate who ritually promises to uphold the honor and dignity of his office made a show of goofing around on Air Force One. On Saturday, he was spied near the staff cabin swinging his arms like a samurai warrior with a sword. If the pose left some aides a bit mystified, it also reassured them that Mr. Bush was not only confident of the outcome but was also having a great time in the presidential race's frantic, exhausting final stages. ''He turned to me several days ago and he said, 'Do you think John Kerry's enjoying himself?''' Karen Hughes, Mr. Bush's longtime confidante and communications adviser, said. ''And I was sort of taken aback and I said, 'What do you mean?' And he said, 'Well, I'm really having a good time.' ''He's energized by the people. We're all tired, everybody's tired, we're working long hours. But we're all energized.'' Calculated or genuine, Mr. Bush's playful optimism has become part of his campaign's playbook as he hurtles toward Election Day in a nail-biting position that no incumbent seeking a second term has faced at least since 1948: facing polls that provide no clear evidence of whether, when he wakes up in the White House on Wednesday morning, he will have been rehired, fired or placed in recount limbo. Whatever strain he may be feeling, he betrays none of it in public, no doubt aware, his aides say, that the slightest crack in the facade could dampen turnout among his supporters and the enthusiasm of the hundreds of thousands of volunteers he is calling on to herd them to the polls. People who have spent time with him behind the scenes say the picture is not much different in private. ''It seemed to me that he was very normal, just like when I'd see him in the White House,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, who rode across his home state with the president last week. But with the presidency on the line, even some of Mr. Bush's closest family members admit to an extraordinary level of tension, suggesting that the president may not be quite as carefree on the inside as he tries to come across on the outside. His mother, Barbara Bush, made a speech a few days ago in Cleveland and said the closing days of the race were going to be ''terrible'' for her. ''I plan to have a nervous breakdown,'' she said in remarks reported by The Cleveland Plain Dealer. After nearly four years in the White House, leading the nation through trying times and an all-out battle to keep his job, and a campaign he has been waging with ever-increasing intensity for nearly a year and a half, Mr. Bush is showing some wear and tear. He is grayer, and his face is considerably more lined than it was before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. He has bags under his eyes, despite his determination to get a good night's sleep (a former baseball team owner and serious fan, he did not stay up to watch the Boston Red Sox, Mr. Kerry's rooting interest, win the World Series on Wednesday night). At 58, Mr. Bush prides himself on having kept himself in good shape; he can no longer run regularly because of bad knees, and his campaign schedule has deprived him of his new favorite form of exercise, long rides on his mountain bike. But when he is on the road he often has an elliptical trainer brought into his room so he can work out. He is appearing at most events now with Laura Bush, and her presence seems to lift his spirits. In Wisconsin on Saturday, he stood beside her on the stage as they were being introduced, gently rubbed her shoulder, reached down to hold her hand and smiled at her. Mr. Bush was traveling with the inner circle that has been with him from the start of his career in elective office: Karl Rove, the strategist whose reputation is on the line; Ms. Hughes, who has shaped his message and public image; Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director; and Joe Hagin, the deputy White House chief of staff. Mr. Bush's brothers Jeb and Marvin were along for part of the day. So was Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, whose presence was a reminder that even at this moment of high political drama, his fate rested to some degree on events in Iraq and the rest of the world. When Mr. Bush arrived Sunday night in Cincinnati, Mr. Rove; Scott McClellan, the press secretary; and other staff members emerged from Air Force One in their Halloween costumes: camouflage outfits, \u00e0 la Kerry. For Mr. Bush and his top aides, it has been a long haul. The president started traveling the country raising money in the middle of last year. He has been mocking and criticizing Mr. Kerry since February, almost from the minute Mr. Kerry became the front-runner for the Democratic Party nomination. He has faced a string of bad news from Iraq, an economy that never generated jobs at the rate he had promised and his own spotty performance in the debates. On the stump, Mr. Bush has had good moments and bad in the campaign's closing days, offering all kinds of opportunity for metaphor but no real insight into what will happen Tuesday. Just about everything went wrong for him on Friday morning in Manchester, N.H. He was supposed to be introduced by the pitcher Curt Schilling, a hero of the World Series sweep by the Red Sox, but Mr. Schilling backed out at the last minute. Mr. Bush was interrupted by protesters holding up a sign referring to the missing explosives in Iraq. As he reached one of the most emotional moments of his speech, canisters of confetti in the rafters above him detonated prematurely in a cackle of gunfire-like explosions, causing him to flinch and forcing him to complete his address in a relentless blizzard of blue and white that accumulated on his hair and suit jacket. But on Friday night, he was greeted rapturously by about 20,000 people in an arena in Columbus, Ohio, in the kind of event that his advance people dream of pulling off. He shared the stage with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, who exhorted the crowd to get out and work ''day and night'' to help Mr. Bush. Mr. Bush is an enthusiastic campaigner who clearly draws energy and strength from the roars of his crowds and the adoring looks of supporters who get to shake his hand or catch his gaze. When they are asked to explain the source of Mr. Bush's confidence, and theirs, his aides point to the deafening reception he gets at his most successful rallies. But Mr. Bush is a hard-headed enough politician not to be totally swayed by anecdotal evidence, especially from rallies at which nearly everyone has been screened to some degree by his campaign or local Republican groups. So in the campaign's waning hours, he gets constant updates on the polls. He has grown so comfortable with the details of polling that it has resulted in a running joke between him and his staff, Ms. Hughes said. After hearing Mr. Bush engage in constant colloquies with Mr. Rove over the merits of voter ''screens,'' the quasi-scientific equations that pollsters use to try to ensure that their results accurately reflect the sentiments of likely voters, Mr. Hagin took action. He recently went to a Home Depot, Ms. Hughes said, bought some window screens, spray painted them with polling jargon like ''R+3'' and presented them to the president aboard Air Force One. Mr. Bush flirted with ending the campaign by shifting to the kind of optimistic, forward-looking oratory that candidates usually turn to at this point. In his speech in Manchester on Friday, he never mentioned Mr. Kerry and spoke in unusually personal terms about how his presidency had affected him. But within hours he was back to his aggressive attacks, portraying the election as a stark choice between security and uncertainty, strength and weakness, principle and expediency. And even as he reaches out to what he calls ''discerning Democrats,'' his campaign is keeping his conservative base stoked. In Wisconsin on Saturday, Mr. Bush urged his supporters to reach across the aisle when they work their precincts on Tuesday. Then he welcomed the presence in the audience of Wayne LaPierre, the executive vice president of the National Rifle Association, and emphasized that he had ''proudly signed'' the ban on the abortion procedure that opponents call partial-birth abortion. Before he went on stage, the country singer Lee Greenwood pumped up the crowd by saying Mr. Bush had ''the right God.'' The pace of his campaigning has picked up noticeably in recent weeks. He will hopscotch through five swing states on Monday before ending the day with a rally in Dallas. After voting in Crawford, Tex., on Tuesday morning, aides said, he may well break with tradition and campaign on Election Day, with several stops en route back to Washington to watch the results at the White House. However it turns out, Ms. Hughes said, Mr. Bush has indicated to her that he will be ''at peace.'' But his assumptions about how it will turn out, she said, do not leave much room for defeat. ''He wants to feel he's done everything possible,'' Ms. Hughes said. ''He's competitive. He wants to be the president for the next four years.'' THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT"}