{"title": "Frantic Presidential Race Ends With a Flood of Ads", "body_text": "The presidential campaign was coming to a close in an epic cacophony of advertisements striking notes of hope and fear, patriotism and betrayal as the candidates headed Sunday into a two-day sprint to sway an electorate that remained stubbornly deadlocked. Shuttling in opposite directions across Ohio and here in Florida, Senator John Kerry and President Bush hopped from church services to outdoor rallies, delivering variations of their messages in an effort to galvanize supporters -- and, perhaps, to win over those last few undecided voters. The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll found that Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry remained locked in a statistical tie. But the poll registered an increase in Mr. Bush's job approval rating, as well as an increase in the number of Americans who said the nation was heading in the right direction. Republicans described this as evidence that Mr. Bush was picking up speed but said that both figures remained dangerously low for an incumbent. The poll also found that voters were concerned about the integrity of the voting system, divided over the legitimacy of Mr. Bush's election four years ago and anxious about the future no matter who won. [Page A16.] In the record advertising war -- totaling an estimated $60 million in the final week, fully one-quarter of all advertising spending in the entire 2000 campaign -- and on the stump, the campaigns put forth their closing arguments, honed and battle-tested over eight long months of campaigning. ''I pledge to you that I will be a president who fights as hard for your jobs as I do for my own,'' Mr. Kerry said in Manchester, N.H., before a crowd of about 10,000, which state Democrats said was a record for a political event. ''We need to lift America up.'' Appearing in Miami, which is heavily Democratic, Mr. Bush made an appeal for support from across the aisle on the basis of his record in battling terrorism. ''If you believe America should fight the war on terror with all her might and lead with unwavering confidence,'' Mr. Bush said, ''I ask you, come stand by me. If you are a Democrat who believes your great party has turned too far left in this year, I ask you, come stand with me.'' Here in Florida and in other swing states, residents were picking through reams of campaign mail as their telephones rang with recorded messages from the likes of former President Bill Clinton and the Boston Red Sox pitcher Curt Schilling urging them to vote for Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush. Airports in swing states were filled with a steady stream of volunteers from uncontested states arriving to knock on doors and make telephone calls to exhort people to vote, all part of a turnout drive that is expected to surpass any other in history. In Ohio alone, the two sides claimed to have more than 150,000 field workers and volunteers who would contact more than one million homes before the polls closed. And in churches, mosques and synagogues, spiritual leaders implored worshipers to vote -- and in some cases were not so subtle in encouraging them to favor one side or the other. After a general election campaign that engaged so extraordinarily early, and never let up, Mr. Bush's closing advertising pitch is similar to his opening one: the world is a dangerous place and the nation's safety cannot be trusted to the liberal likes of Mr. Kerry. As an announcer says in one of Mr. Bush's three closing spots running here, ''Alone in the booth, why take the risk?'' Mr. Kerry's closing argument is the culmination of a several-month search for a clean line of attack: Mr. Bush has made a mess of Iraq, has not done enough to help the middle class find jobs and afford health care, and it is time for a ''fresh start.'' For those worried about Mr. Kerry's ability to protect the nation, he says directly into the camera in one spot running throughout swing states, ''I will stop at nothing to find and kill the terrorists.'' On the trail on Sunday, Mr. Kerry raced from a Baptist church in Dayton, Ohio, to a rally with newly lionized Boston Red Sox executives in downtown Manchester, N.H., to a nighttime event in Tampa, pressing his agenda of job creation, affordable health insurance and improved education as his aides argued that voters were looking for more than just an effective commander in chief. Mr. Kerry tried to focus mainly on domestic issues. He began his day by attending Mass at Holy Angels Catholic Church in Dayton, then crossed town to speak from the pulpit of Shiloh Baptist Church, where he preached a politics of compassion for the needy. ''When you clothe the naked, when you feed the hungry, when you heal the sick, when you visit those in prison,'' he said, quoting Matthew, ''what you do unto the least among us you do unto the Lord himself.'' Mr. Bush, too, went to church. During a service at the Roman Catholic Church of the Epiphany in Miami, Msgr. Jude O'Doherty addressed Mr. Bush, saying, ''Your belief in prayer and dependence on God is an example to all of us,'' according to an account by a pool reporter. To applause from parishioners, the priest thanked Mr. Bush for his ''whole-hearted support of human life'' and for supporting the ''partial-birth abortion'' ban. Mr. Bush appealed to an array of electoral groups as he crisscrossed the state. At a rally in Miami he spoke a few phrases in Spanish and sought to appeal to Cuban-Americans, typically a reliably Republican voting bloc, by reiterating his desire to see Cuba rid itself of Fidel Castro. For the third day, the campaigns and their surrogates debated whether Osama bin Laden's latest taped message effectively punctuated Mr. Bush's overarching message on terrorism or reminded voters of Mr. Kerry's argument that Mr. bin Laden remained missing despite Mr. Bush's earlier pledge to get him ''dead or alive.'' In a transcript of an interview CBS News released Sunday night, Mr. Kerry said, ''I don't think it plays into anybody's hands, and I don't want it to.'' He added: ''How dare Osama bin Laden enter into the election process of the United States of America? I think Americans are smart enough to not let this thug get in the way of decisions that affect health care, schools, jobs, Social Security, Medicare, the future of this country.'' Mr. Bush told Tom Brokaw of NBC News that Mr. bin Laden was ''not going to intimidate or decide this election'' and that ''we are systematically destroying Al Qaeda,'' a theme that his surrogates struck throughout the day. The extraordinarily high advertising spending here and in 11 other swing states comes despite the conventional wisdom that get-out-the-vote efforts matter far more than any paid commercials at the end of a presidential election. But strategists for both campaigns and outside analysts say that with the race so tight neither side can afford to leave any commercial break uncovered as they race to keep their base voters primed while also trying to sway those few stubborn, undecided stragglers. ''If you're voting ultimately on the economy or terrorism or Iraq or health care, these are messages to just reinforce your beliefs,'' said Evan Tracey, chief operating officer of Campaign Media Analysis Group, a Virginia-based firm that tracks advertising and provided the $60 million estimate, which both campaigns affirm. ''Then there are people who connect on the last spot they hear, the last newspaper article they read. In the past those people don't generally matter. But everybody's playing on the margins right now, and they've got to make sure they don't let off the gas at the end.'' Mr. Kerry's media strategists say they planned for this last-minute push months ago, with a deep conviction that Al Gore's depleted war chest in 2000 left him vulnerable in the final days to Mr. Bush, who, they estimate, out-advertised him by some 30 percent, and is the best financed incumbent in history this time around. ''Bush outspent us by $700,000 in the final week and we lost there by 600 votes,'' said Tad Devine, a top strategist for Mr. Kerry, said of Florida. (Mr. Gore actually lost there by 537 votes). ''You don't think maybe I could have found another 600 votes with another $700,000?'' With that in mind, Mr. Devine said the Kerry campaign took a calculated risk to not advertise in August, when it dropped in the polls after coming under heavy attack from Mr. Bush and a group of Swift boat veterans so that it could advertise heavily now. This time in the final days both sides have enough money to advertise just about everywhere they see fit. And while they dispute who is advertising more here and in Ohio, the two sides agree there is no sort of disparity like in 2000. The heaviest advertising war ever -- estimated at more than $550 million since March -- has a downside for the candidates. The airwaves here and elsewhere are so cluttered with commercials that ''it's hard to break through in this climate,'' said Matthew Dowd, Mr. Bush's chief campaign strategist. He said Mr. Bush's now well-known ''wolves spot'' featuring a pack of wolves prowling a forest as an announcer warns ''weakness attracts those who are waiting to do America harm'' was devised to stand out in the crowd. Mr. Kerry's strategists said their spots stood out by primarily featuring Mr. Kerry speaking directly into the camera in a way that Mr. Bush -- whose aides acknowledge that he is not as smooth a speaker as Mr. Kerry is -- has not done during the election. But the campaigns have stiff competition from outside groups. The Swift Boat Veterans for Truth are running a final couple of spots once again accusing Mr. Kerry of betraying his fellow soldiers when he came back from fighting in Vietnam to speak out against the war in the early 1970's. The Media Fund, a Democratic group, is running advertisements in several states raising questions about Mr. Bush's relationship with the ''corrupt'' Saudi royal family, which the group's president, Erik Smith, described as ''magic'' because ''it speaks to the base and independents.'' THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CAMPAIGN Correction:  November 2, 2004, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about the final Sunday of campaigning before the presidential election misstated the party affiliation of people who said that President Bush's job approval rating, and the number of Americans who believe the nation was heading in the right direction, were dangerously low for an incumbent. They were Democrats."}