{"title": "Doctors Use Nanotechnology to Improve Health Care", "body_text": "Nanotechnology's bag of tricks for inventing new molecules and manipulating those available naturally could be dazzling in its potential to improve health care. Evidence is accumulating that nanotechnology may enable better early warning systems for cancer and heart disease, cures for progressive diseases like cystic fibrosis, techniques for making implants like artificial hips more successful, and even artificial kidneys. But there is no reliable timeline for the home-run projects, according to specialists like Dr. Peter R. Cavanagh, chairman of the department of biomedical engineering at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, one of the nation's largest hospital and health research centers. ''We know how to make rubber, and we know where the road is going to go,'' Dr. Cavanagh told an international gathering of nanotechnology researchers and physicians at the Cleveland Clinic last week. ''What we don't know is where the rubber is going to meet the road.'' Nanotechnology has garnered headlines and billions of dollars of federal investment because of its potentially broad effects on all parts of commerce. It is already used in consumer products like transparent sunscreens and stain-resistant clothing. But its capacity for mixing and matching molecules seems especially suited for transforming medicine. Nanotechnology involves industrial products and processes in the realm of nanometers, or billionths of a meter. That is also the scale on which all living cells -- and the things that nourish or kill them -- operate. Viruses, for instance, range in size from 20 nanometers to 300 nanometers, with human antibodies roughly the size of smaller viruses. For that reason, medical research has long worked on the nanoscale. For example, Dr. H.David Humes at the University of Michigan and Dr. Tejal Desai at Boston University are using machinery and processes adapted from the semiconductor industry to build prototypes of implantable artificial organs with pores or slits smaller than 20 nanometers wide. Such nanofilters are the only way to let essential nutrients pass in and out of the devices while excluding cells and other biological matter that can clog or poison them. Medical device companies have also routinely tinkered with the molecular structures of the surfaces of the materials they use. For devices like pacemakers, one goal is to make them less hospitable to in-growth from tissues that could impair the devices. In other cases, as with hip or knee implants, the engineers try to make the body's tissues bind to the surface as fast as possible. In recent years, scanning electron microscopes and atomic force microscopes have allowed bioengineers to get sharper images of what they were doing. And computer-controlled machinery has given them the ability to manipulate the size, shape and surfaces of drugs and devices. Now, for example, device makers not only shape the surfaces of their products, but they may also add specialty coatings like those from Biophan Technologies. Biophan's coatings, made up of magnetic particles 20 nanometers to 40 nanometers across, make the devices visible to magnetic resonance imaging machines used to track their placement. The new tools inevitably conjure up ''Fantastic Voyage,'' the 1960's science-fiction thriller in which a medical team was shrunk and launched into a patient's bloodstream in a cell-size submarine to wipe out a blood clot in the victim's brain. Indeed, Dr. Aaron J. Fleischman, co-director of the laboratory that Cleveland Clinic set up five years ago to provide researchers with engineering support for very small-scale devices, said that doctors initially asked him when he would start building tiny intelligent submarines -- minus the shrunken crew, of course. While researchers do discuss the feasibility of making tiny robotic devices able to maneuver inside the body and perform a variety of tasks, most current research and new product development is focused on nano-scale particles. Quantum dots, metallic particles that emit bright light in a color range that varies with their size, are now frequently used to study tumors and locate proteins that researchers want to study. By attaching antibodies that prefer to bind with specific types of cells to dots of different sizes, the researchers can get a multicolored image showing the location and concentration of many elements inside a tissue sample. Nanoparticles may help researchers overcome obstacles in gene therapy, which seeks to treat genetically inherited diseases like cystic fibrosis by implanting healthy genes to do the work of damaged ones. Nanoparticles may also be used to deliver heat to cancer cells to kill them. MagForce Technologies, based in Berlin, coats iron oxide nanoparticles with a compound that is a nutrient for tumor cells, which then ingest the particles. When an external magnetic field causes the particles to vibrate rapidly, the tumor cells are killed and then flushed from the body by its natural scavenger cells, according to MagForce's research results. MagForce expects regulatory approval to sell the particles and its treatment machinery in Germany in 2006 after more extensive clinical trials have been completed. A German insurer has already agreed to reimburse hospitals there for the technology, based on early results, according to Dr. Andreas Jordan, the company's chief executive. Dr. Jordan said he was negotiating with large American equipment vendors in hopes of finding a partner big enough to cope with the costs of getting regulatory and reimbursement approval in the United States. Business issues aside, researchers say, nanotechnology in medicine faces so many technical hurdles that long delays and numerous failures are inevitable. ''The complexity of biology is clearly beyond our comprehension at this time,'' said Dr. James R. Baker Jr., director of the Center for Biologic Nanotechnology at the University of Michigan. ''That's why so many drugs fail.'' TECHNOLOGY"}