{"title": "Questions of Faith and Fate, and Variations on a Theme", "body_text": "Brothers in Tragedy  Look for Answers 'Two Brothers Who Are Not Brothers' Players Theater It is evident almost immediately that ''Two Brothers Who Are Not Brothers,'' a new two-hander by Paul Rawlings that is running at the Players Theater on Macdougal Street, is going to offer only limited insights into the cosmic questions it seeks to explore. When the lights come up on Dix, the disillusioned half of the pair, he is sporting facial hair and a wiseacre delivery. And when Jack, the man of faith, appears, he has unshakable convictions and a Southern accent. Ah, the blissful, lazy world of theatrical shorthand, where all cynics are bearded and all conservative Christians are doctrinaire and from below the Mason-Dixon line. The two men, brothers-in-law, have been visited by extreme tragedy, though to say more would be to severely undercut the first act, a collection of fragmentary dialogue that seeks to get you guessing about who's who and what has happened but mostly is just annoying. Jack (John Jimerson) and Dix (Joe Thompson), polar opposites in good Theater 101 fashion, are coping with loss, each in his own way, Jack proclaiming his faith in Jesus, Dix getting rid of clothing and furniture and house and anything else that might remind him of happier days. Mr. Rawlings tries to work this into a pithy discussion of faith and fate and why God, if there is a God, lets bad things happen. But he doesn't have much new to offer on these ageless questions, especially not in a city that has been pondering them, with far more nuance, since Sept. 11, 2001. That's not to say that it is without compelling notions. A few stretches where Jack confronts the realization that you can't force faith or friendship onto someone who doesn't want it are nicely rendered and acted. So is a moment when Jack briefly comes face-to-face with the possibility that faith can only take you so far, an idea from which he quickly retreats. ''We have got to endure this without trying to understand,'' he says, a starkly eloquent admission that may have been the bottom line for many New Yorkers. NEIL GENZLINGER THEATER REVIEWS"}