{"title": "THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: White House Letter; Entering the Homestretch With a Smile", "body_text": "Late last week at a campaign rally in a dark Pennsylvania pasture, thousands of supporters listened raptly to President Bush and then watched fireworks explode overhead. But other pyrotechnics were going off in a distant corner, where a giant scrum of reporters ignored the candidate but hung on to every word of a bombastic, deceptively cherub-faced man Democrats love to hate. He was Karl Rove, the president's political adviser, the man who devised the strategy of playing hard to Mr. Bush's conservative base. On Nov. 3, depending on the outcome, Mr. Rove will be either a genius or a goat. It is hard to know what Mr. Rove has been feeling inside, but in the waning days of his toughest political fight he is suddenly turning up at campaign stops to push his sunny version of events on reporters, who rush to him like ducks seeking a crumb of bread in a pond. Almost nobody knows if Mr. Rove's cheery mood means he is convinced from the campaign's polling that Mr. Bush will win, or whether it is a front to try to put a positive spin on a bad turn of events. Either way, it was Mr. Rove who said four years ago that Mr. Bush would easily beat Al Gore in the Electoral College, a prediction that reporters like to bring up to torture him. Someone dutifully mentioned it in the press scrum in the pasture. ''Rub my nose in it,'' Mr. Rove shot back. With a circle of tape recorders humming, Mr. Rove said he was making no such predictions this time around. But that did not stop him from asserting that the campaign's nightly polls showed Mr. Bush even with or ahead of Senator John Kerry in 8 of 10 battleground states, and that it was wrong to assume that undecided voters would in the end support the challenger. ''I can tell you this: The undecideds are more likely to be conservative and moderate than they are liberal,'' Mr. Rove said. ''They're virtually all white, they're more women than men, they're more churchgoing than not churchgoing, and the president's job approval among those people is 49 or 50 almost every night and by a margin of 18 points they think the president is going to win. They're the traditional undecided voter who is paying some attention but not taking a lot in and is going to make a late decision, and all the factors in the poll lead me to believe that they will break our way.'' Mr. Rove was even more assured about Mr. Bush's prospects in Arkansas, where a recent poll showed Mr. Kerry pulling even with the president and where both sides are spending money on a late advertising push. Asked if he saw a difference in the president's poll numbers in the state, Mr. Rove said no and then gleefully insisted that the Republicans had made the Democrats spend money there. ''We've succeeded in suckering them,'' he said. ''We've got a little extra cash on the table, so we're going to go down there and just taunt them a little bit.'' It is Mr. Rove who delivers all polling news to the president, as he did with the results of the latest Newsweek survey on Saturday aboard Air Force One. ''Sir, Newsweek has you up six,'' Mr. Rove told Mr. Bush, according to Karen Hughes, a top Bush adviser. Typically, Mr. Rove and Mr. Bush will then get into an intricate discussion of the method the poll used to screen for likely voters and ''all this mumbo jumbo,'' Ms. Hughes said. Other times Mr. Rove likes to playfully withhold news of recent polls from the president. ''He'll smile and say, 'I'm not going to tell you about the latest numbers,' but he'll have a big smile on his face,'' Ms. Hughes said. Mr. Rove seemed in a good mood even at a small disaster of a rally on Friday morning in Manchester, N.H., where Curt Schilling, the star Red Sox pitcher, failed to turn up as promised and balloons prematurely popped in the ceiling, sending a shower of confetti in Mr. Bush's face at a serious moment in his speech. Mr. Rove, who is the chief suspect among Internet conspiracy theorists and some Democrats who claim Mr. Bush received answers in the presidential debates via a hidden earpiece, stood on the sidelines in Manchester happily checking his BlackBerry. At one point his mood was so festive that he even cupped his hand over his mouth and pretended to be transmitting lines to the president. ''Terrorist networks around the world,'' Mr. Rove intoned, as if he were sending instructions to Mr. Bush. ''We will confront them and stay on the offensive.'' Now, with only 24 hours until the election (and assuming no deadlock), Mr. Rove will soon know whether he can light a cigar with Mr. Bush or start looking for a new job. On Thursday night in the Pennsylvania pasture, Mr. Rove was asked how he was feeling. ''I'm feeling good,'' he said. ''I'm feeling very good.'' Did it worry him that he was feeling good? ''It does sometimes,'' Mr. Rove acknowledged. ''Particularly about 3:30 in the morning.'' White House Letter"}