{"title": "New Evidence on Main Cause of Cerebral Palsy", "body_text": "A new study undermines the long-held belief among obstetricians that oxygen deprivation, or hypoxia, is the main cause of cerebral palsy in premature infants. The study, published in the October issue of The American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology, found that the brain injury that leads to cerebral palsy was much more commonly associated with infection than with hypoxia. The new findings, said Dr. Ernest Graham, an assistant professor in the department of obstetrics and gynecology at Johns Hopkins and the lead author of the study, have important implications for both research and clinical practice. ''This changes our thinking,'' Dr. Graham said. ''In the past, we've focused primarily on hypoxia,'' but the study suggests that monitoring for hypoxia ''isn't likely to help very much.'' Finding ways to prevent and treat infections, on the other hand, ''may have a huge impact on the problem,'' he said. The researchers studied premature infants born from 1994 to 2001 in a university hospital. They looked at cases of periventricular leukomalacia, or PVL, a specific kind of damage to the white matter of the brain. The white matter transmits signals in the brain and from the brain to the spinal cord, and is particularly subject to injury in premature infants. While there are other factors associated with brain damage in premature infants, like bleeding into the brain and pregnancies in which a woman carries two or more fetuses, a large majority of infants with PVL develop cerebral palsy. The symptoms may not be evident for many months after birth, but the damage can be seen on brain scans, which reveal the characteristic cysts that form after brain tissue is damaged. In time, the cysts are reabsorbed, leaving abnormally enlarged ventricles where the brain tissue has died. PVL can cause a range of physical and mental disabilities from mild to very severe, but the most common is spastic diplegia, tightly contracted muscles in the legs that cannot function normally. When researchers looked at 150 preterm babies with PVL and matched them to a control group of 150 preemies born in the same time period who did not have brain damage, the results were surprising. Hypoxia, as measured by umbilical cord blood tests, was no more common in the premature babies with PVL than it was in the other babies. Delivery by Caesarean section was not associated with PVL, nor did tests of blood chemistry distinguish injured from noninjured babies. Even babies whose fetal heart rates were reduced during labor and delivery were not any more likely than other babies to suffer brain injury. What did make a difference, and it was a large one, was whether the babies had suffered infections. Infants who had positive bacterial cultures of the blood, cerebrospinal fluid or throat were two to four times as likely to suffer brain damage as those who did not. Staphylococcus infections predominated, but the researchers found more than 10 other kinds of infections as well, and the type of infection made no difference in the rates of injury. ''This is an important and fascinating paper,'' said Dr. Larry Gilstrap, chairman of obstetrics, gynecology and reproductive sciences at the University of Texas Medical School at Houston. Dr. Gilstrap, who was not involved in the study, noted that with a possible cause for the brain injuries, methods of preventing them might be found."}