{"title": "As the Veil on Titan Is Lifted, 'What We See Is Very Alien'", "body_text": "After the Cassini spacecraft's close-up photography and radar imaging of Saturn's largest moon, the first parting of its veil of dense smog, scientists know this much for sure about Titan: it is one of the strangest worlds in the solar system. ''Most of what we see is very alien,'' said Dr. Laurence A. Soderblom, a planetary scientist with the United States Geological Survey. The surface of Titan seen so far is a mosaic of bright, or rugged, regions bordering dark expanses where the terrain is generally smooth and may include lakes of liquid methane and ethane. One such ''lake'' appears to be as large as Lake Champlain. Some places resemble a cracked eggshell, with thin bright threads running like fissures through the landscape. Broad grooves near the equator look like ridges, perhaps formed by volcanic eruptions not of molten lava but icy water or hydrocarbons. No mountains or deep valleys are in sight. Streaks across the flat terrain may be dunes of windblown carbon-based compounds, what passes for topsoil on Titan. Such organic material, either sticky and tarlike or powdery or slushy, may cover a ''bedrock'' of water ice to depths of a few hundred feet. Much of it, possibly ethane, propane and acetylene, must form in chemical reactions on the surface or rain out of the smoggy sky known to be rich in methane and now found to contain benzene. With this abundance of hydrocarbons, the sky and surface of Titan would be dangerously flammable, like a petroleum refinery primed to erupt in fire, if there were any free oxygen there. So what are scientists of the $3.2 billion Cassini mission to make of such a world? ''The surface is like a jigsaw puzzle for which the picture is not provided on the box cover,'' said Dr. Jonathan Lunine of the University of Arizona. Dr. Charles Elachi, director of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory here, where the Cassini mission is controlled, likened the problem of understanding Titan to reading a mystery novel. ''Each time you flip the page you learn something new,'' he said, ''but you don't know the whole story until you've read the whole book.'' Some early interpretations of the Titanian surface lean heavily on what was already known from ground-based and previous spacecraft observations about the moon's nitrogen-methane atmosphere, or from comparisons with findings of other icy moons, notably Jupiter's Ganymede. Dr. Soderblom said it made ''a minute amount of sense'' that, given the composition of Titan's atmosphere, the fluids that might have shaped some of the landscape were mixtures of methane and ethane. Citing observations of a phenomenon that is probably similar on Ganymede, he said some features on Titan could be from volcanic eruptions, upwellings of water ice mixed with ammonia and methane, which would lower the fluids' freezing point. Dr. Lunine said the fact that no craters had been seen ''tells us that Titan's surface is young,'' its basins filled in with material from such volcanic upwellings or hydrocarbon precipitation from the sky. Other remote-sensing instruments on Cassini detected evidence that Titan had lost three-quarters of its original atmosphere. Much of its light nitrogen seems to have escaped over time. But the methane content appears to have remained constant. It could be that Titan has replenished methane escaping from the atmosphere, said Dr. Tobias Owen of the University of Hawaii at Manoa. ''Where did it come from?'' he added. ''That is the question.'' Scientists suggested that some atmospheric hydrocarbons were being replenished from underground sources of liquid methane. Both before and after Cassini's close encounter, scientists often reminded themselves and others not to make hasty interpretations or be discouraged. They recalled the experience of the earliest spacecraft explorations of Mars. In the first three flybys of Mars, in the 1960's, Dr. Owen pointed out, the Mariner spacecraft ''happened by chance to go over the most boring portion'' of that planet, where the unrelieved cratered landscape invited comparisons with the desolate surface of Earth's Moon. Not until Mariner 9 began orbiting Mars in 1971, photographing its entirety, did scientists see the volcanic peaks and wide canyons, dry channels where water probably once flowed and other traces of a dynamic past. This renewed speculation that life might have existed there. Scientists do not expect to find life on bitterly cold Titan, 290 degrees below zero Fahrenheit. At best, they hope that in the dynamic chemistry of Titan's atmosphere, and possibly its surface, to find insights into how life originated in Earth's early history. Titan is the only moon with a substantial atmosphere; the main constituent of it is nitrogen, as is Earth's. But that will take time and patience, scientists say. Cassini's cameras and infrared sensors surveyed only part of one side of Titan, and its radar returned images of only a narrow strip representing no more than 1 percent of the surface. Over the next four years, the craft is to make 44 more flybys of Titan. On 25 of these, scientists expect the radar to explore at least a quarter of Titan's landscape. Flight controllers said that Cassini, which has been orbiting Saturn and the planet's retinue of moons since June 30, was performing flawlessly and had already adjusted its course for another encounter with Titan on Dec. 13. Then, on Dec. 24, the spacecraft is to release a smaller craft for a more intimate exploration. The Huygens craft, built and operated by the European Space Agency, is to enter Titan's atmosphere on Jan. 14 and parachute to the surface, collecting data and taking pictures all the way. If it survives the landing, Huygens may be able to transmit views of the surface for 30 minutes, perhaps long enough to answer some of the questions about a frozen land of water ice carpeted in gooey, powdery or plasticlike carbon-based compounds. Or Huygens may splash down in a lake of methane and ethane, sinking silently to the depths of the mystery."}