{"title": "The I.P.O. Succeeded. Who Was Rewarded?", "body_text": "In 1999, they were celebrated as the embodiment of dot-com bravado when they quit great jobs at companies like Netscape and Yahoo to create Epinions, a Web site that reviews consumer products. Their story should have had a happy ending last week when Shopping.com -- the company formed in April 2003 by the merger of Epinions and a comparison-pricing site called DealTime -- went public. Shopping.com enjoyed the most successful first day of any initial offering in the United States since JetBlue went public in April 2002, according to Richard J. Peterson, the chief market strategist for Thomson Financial. But the founders of Epinions -- Nirav Tolia, Naval Ravikant, Ramanathan Guha, Dion Lim and Mike Speiser -- have learned that success does not necessarily mean that a company's creators will be rewarded. August Capital and Benchmark Capital, two venture capital firms that invested $4 million each to help start Epinions in April 1999, profited handsomely in the public offering. They had both made additional investments, and each now owns a stake in Shopping.com worth roughly $60 million. Overall, Shopping.com was worth $750 million at the close of the market on Friday. By contrast, four of the five founders of Epinions did not see a dime from Shopping.com's public sale -- their shares in Epinions were rendered worthless when it merged with DealTime. ''What the Epinions story demonstrates,'' said Paul Saffo, a research fellow at the Institute for the Future, a Silicon Valley research group, ''is that the golden rule applies even in Silicon Valley: the people who have the gold, rule.'' Of the Epinions founders, only Mr. Tolia, who took over as Shopping.com's chief operating officer after the merger, fared well in the offering. His shares were worth nearly $20 million at Friday's closing price. But Mr. Tolia's good fortune is not unmarred. In June, he resigned after the company ''became aware of inaccuracies in his representations about his work history and educational background,'' according to a Shopping.com press release. A biography distributed by Epinions in its early days stated that Mr. Tolia had a degree from Stanford University. A spokeswoman for Stanford, however, said in an interview that though Mr. Tolia had attended the college between 1990 and 1995, a degree was not conferred until last Sept. 30. Mr. Tolia also claimed he worked as an analyst at McKinsey & Company. ''We have no record of a Nirav Tolia ever working for us,'' a McKinsey spokesman said. Lou Montulli, a founding engineer at Netscape who joined Epinions three weeks after its inception, said, ''It's really hard for me to discern the real truth on all that happened. Not everything is clear, even to us.'' Mr. Tolia's credibility is an issue for Shopping.com, the company said in filings, as it braces for litigation tied to its merger with Epinions. Lawyers for at least 30 former Epinions employees, including Mr. Speiser and Mr. Ravikant, have told Shopping.com that they intend to sue over the valuation of stock options that they were awarded. Before the offering, Epinions had two classes of shares: common stock, which was granted to the founders and employees, and preferred shares, which were given to investors. Their preferred shares in Epinions entitled the financiers to be reimbursed the $45 million they had invested before anyone else was compensated. Today, the Epinions portion of Shopping.com is worth hundreds of millions, but at the time of the DealTime merger, Epinions was valued at roughly $30 million, which rendered all common shares worthless. ''The question we're asking,'' said one former Epinions employee who asked not to be identified and who plans to be part of the lawsuit, ''is how this company supposedly worth only $30 million was suddenly worth $300 million only 18 months later.'' The 70 or so former Epinions employees who were not hired by Shopping.com, the lawyers assert, are owed as much as 2.4 million shares of Shopping.com, a stake worth $65 million at Friday's closing price of $26.97 a share (the shares were initially priced at $18 each). Mr. Montulli, who said he had not decided if he would join the suit as a plaintiff, said, ''It's my understanding that it could be quite a large group joining that suit.'' At its peak, 120 people worked for Epinions; all were granted stock options. J. William Gurley, of Benchmark Capital, declined to comment on Epinions, citing the S.E.C.-mandated quiet period that extends for 25 days after a company's public offering. In April 2003, the California Department of Corporations found that the merger was ''fair, just and equitable to parties on both sides of the transaction.'' Mr. Tolia also declined to comment. But during a hearing in 2003 he said that it was ''always a bit of a tough feeling when one realizes it's the end of the road in terms of holding a piece of stock, and now that piece of stock will be worthless.'' Many former employees are critical of Mr. Tolia, including Joyce Park, who worked at Epinions from early 2000 until she was laid off in the spring of 2002. ''I think the surprise among most of us is that Nirav was the one to scoop up the whole pot,'' she said. ''Let's just say that to us he was the out-front guy, the charming guy who looked good on TV.'' Mr. Tolia was not the company's original chief executive, but he served in that position at the time of the merger. But Eric Goldman, Epinions' general counsel and now a law professor, said that Mr. Tolia was just doing his job in fashioning a merger with DealTime. ''Without Nirav's leadership, the company would not have survived,'' he said. ''So not only would those holding common stock have been annihilated, all the other investors would have been annihilated, too.'' That view was echoed by Dion Lim, one of the founders of Epinions. ''I believe that everything Nirav has done -- including layoffs, the merger, his resignation -- has been in the best interest of the company,'' Mr. Lim wrote in an e-mail message. The choice Mr. Tolia faced, Mr. Goldman said, was to accept an offer that would salvage some jobs at Epinions and reward the firm's investors, or see the company shut down. ''That doesn't mean people didn't get hurt,'' he said, ''and I'm speaking as one of them.'' TECHNOLOGY"}