{"title": "No Vaccines? You Can Still Fight the Flu", "body_text": "There's an unfortunate twist associated with this season's shortage of flu vaccine. Now that many people who could be protected cannot be immunized, everyone seems to want the vaccine against this costly, debilitating and sometimes life-threatening viral illness. Perhaps next year people will remember this desire to protect themselves against the flu when, we hope, there will be enough vaccine available to meet the demand. Having twice had pneumonia and bronchitis after the flu (first at 17 and later at 27), I have long advocated annual flu shots for every adult, even the young and otherwise healthy. I have not once had the flu in the 15 years or so that I've received annual flu shots. The longstanding recommendation that the vaccine should be given only to the elderly, the chronically ill and people like the police and health care workers who perform essential services mainly arose from the limited amount a vaccine produced annually for many years. Thus, it was necessary to offer the vaccine first to those who needed it most. But in recent years, vaccine supplies increased, making it possible for many healthy adults to be immunized. In an average year, according to the latest estimates from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 114,000 people in this country are hospitalized and 36,000 die from flu-related complications. Even among flu victims who simply stay home for a few days, the cost to employers and society is staggering. Hoping for Mild This year I'm in the same boat as millions of other Americans, young and old, who in all likelihood will not be able to get the vaccine, at least not before January, if then. The most we can hope for is that it will be a relatively mild flu season, lacking a major genetic shift in the most devastating form of flu virus, Type A. So far, no such shift has occurred, but there's no telling when this genetically fickle virus will don another medically disastrous coat. Meanwhile, I plan to do my best to avoid contracting the flu, and I hope you will too. And not just for your own well-being but also for the well-being of those you live, work and socialize with, not to mention casual contacts on public transportation and in stores, schools and movies. It is a simple fact that the more people who get the flu, the more influenza viruses will be circulating that can make others ill as well. Unlike viruses that cause measles, mumps or chickenpox, those that cause influenza in people come in two basic forms, Types A and B, each readily undergoing genetic change as it passes through various animal species. And every time a human flu virus is changed significantly, a new vaccine must be produced. So each year the few companies that make flu vaccine must go through rather frantic production schedules to produce new vaccines that include protection against the genetic variants circulating during early summer that are expected to become the cause of widespread illness the next winter. Since the viruses are changing all the time, sometimes the vaccine that becomes available in fall does not protect against all the viral forms that may cause the flu that year. But most of the time, vaccine makers do a commendable job in producing a vaccine that is 70 to 90 percent effective in preventing influenza that year. And even when breakthrough illness occurs in immunized people, it is usually milder than would otherwise be the case. Further complicating matters is the fact that even if the virus does not mutate from year to year, flu vaccine has to be administered annually, since protection from this killed virus vaccine rarely lasts much more than a year. (The live-virus vaccine, FluMist, administered as a nasal spray, is recommended only for healthy people age 5 through 49.) Minimizing the Risk Once you realize how easy it is to transmit flu viruses from one person to another, you will see why annual immunization is the preferred means of prevention. Still, there are steps you can take to help minimize your exposure or, if you should become ill, how many others you infect. The flu spreads much more readily than a cold. In most cases, it moves from one person to another via virus-contaminated airborne droplets released when an infected person coughs, sneezes or even engages in a normal conversation. The virus can also spread through hands and inanimate objects. As with cold viruses, flu viruses can live for an hour or more on an infected person's hands and on objects handled by contaminated hands. Furthermore, the flu can be spread by people who haven't yet developed symptoms and don't even know they are vectors. The incubation period -- the time between becoming infected with the virus and knowing you are ill -- is one to three days, and during that time you can spread the virus. Once flu symptoms develop, you remain contagious for another three to five days, and that means you can transmit the flu to others for about one week. Efforts to contain influenza are further complicated by the fact that school-age children are believed to be the main people spreading the disease. Children are rarely immunized against the flu and most get only a mild case, hard to distinguish from the common cold or some other pesky childhood infection. Of course, teachers, parents and others who take care of them can hardly avoid being exposed to sick children and are sitting ducks to become flu victims themselves. So, what can you do to reduce your risk? You can start by washing your hands -- 20 seconds with warm, soapy water -- as often as possible and especially after touching publicly used handrails and other such objects. And avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth until you wash. Also avoid using antibacterial soaps, which do nothing to block viruses and, many experts believe, may encourage the emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. If you are out and about and no running water is available, use a packaged wipe. Several packets of them can easily fit into a purse or pocket. Instead of shaking hands, consider nodding to a new or renewed acquaintance. A face mask, however, is of questionable effectiveness. Keep your immune system in the best possible shape by regularly eating wholesome meals and snacks, especially lots of vegetables and fruits, getting adequate sleep, drinking plenty of nonalcoholic fluids, and doing moderately vigorous exercise on most days. (Excessive exercise can suppress immunity rather than enhance it.) If you think you were exposed to the flu, you may try taking echinacea, with or without vitamin C, for a day or two. But avoid daily use of this regimen since it can have the reverse effect if overdone. There are a few antiviral remedies that can decrease the severity of a Type A flu infection if treatment is started within two days of the onset of symptoms. They are amantadine (Symmetrel) and rimantadine (Flumadine). These drugs are also effective as preventives for high-risk people in settings like nursing homes. Two newer drugs, zanamivir (Relenza), an inhaled product, and oseltamivir (Tamiflu), an oral product, can reduce the severity of a flu infection regardless of viral type. As a treatment once symptoms start, they are taken twice a day for five days. They can also be used for prevention for periods of about two weeks. PERSONAL HEALTH"}