{"title": "Vaccine Works to Prevent Cervical Cancer", "body_text": "An experimental vaccine to prevent cervical cancer, first proved effective in preliminary testing two years ago, has continued to provide protection against the disease, researchers reported yesterday. The vaccine, which works by making people immune to a common sexually transmitted virus that causes the cancer, is not yet available. But its maker, Merck Laboratories, expects to apply for approval late next year, said Dr. Eliav Barr, a research director at the company. Worldwide, there are 470,000 new cases of cervical cancer a year and 225,000 deaths. Most of the deaths occur in poorer countries where women do not have regular Pap tests, which can detect cancers or precancers early enough for them to be cured. In the United States, where Pap testing is widespread, 11,000 new cases are expected this year and about 4,000 deaths. If the vaccine is approved, Dr. Barr said, it will be recommended for use in young adults and in children starting at age 9 or 10, before they become sexually active and encounter the virus. Once cancer develops, it is too late for the vaccine to help. The median age at which young people in the United States first have sex is 15. Boys as well as girls should be vaccinated, researchers say. Men are not usually harmed by the virus, but they carry it and infect women, so immunizing men will protect women. It will also protect men who have sex with men, a group with rising rates of anal cancer caused by the same viruses that cause cervical cancer. Merck has been testing the vaccine for four years in 1,505 women ages 16 to 23, Dr. Barr said. He presented the company's latest findings at a conference in Washington. The women were given three shots in six months -- 750 got placebos and 755 the real vaccine -- and had Pap tests every six months. After four years, the vaccine was 100 percent effective: 12 women in the placebo group and none in the treated group had precancerous growths on the cervix. Lab tests showed that their levels of immunity to the virus stayed high, suggesting that the vaccine might provide long-term protection without the need for booster shots later in life, Dr. Barr said. But, he added: ''We can't exclude the need for boosters. Women are at risk for many years.'' The vaccine works against viruses that belong to a group called human papillomaviruses, or HPV. Nearly every case of cervical cancer is caused by HPV. The viruses are sexually transmitted, extremely common and almost impossible to avoid. At least half the adults in the United States have been infected. More than 30 types of HPV infect the human genital area. Only some types cause cancer; others cause genital warts. A type known as HPV-16 causes 50 percent of cervical cancers, and HPV-18 causes 20 percent. Other types cause the rest. But even the cancer-causing types are harmless in most people because their immune systems fight them off. The virus persists in some women, however, causing lesions on the cervix. Most lesions go away, but some turn cancerous. The vaccine Merck described provides immunity only to HPV-16, and it is not the one the company plans to market; it was developed as a prototype to determine whether humans could be made immune to any strain of HPV. Merck will seek approval for a more broadly effective vaccine, which it has been testing since 2001 in 25,000 men and women in 34 countries. That vaccine will immunize against four strains: the main causes of cervical cancer, HPV-16 and 18, and two other viruses that cause genital warts. Researchers included the wart strains to make it more appealing to men, who may want protection against genital warts, which can turn into large, ugly growths. Dr. Barr said Merck had already built a factory dedicated to producing the vaccine. The company has not yet said what it would charge for the product. The vaccine does not contain whole viruses; it consists of proteins normally found on the outer shell of the virus. The proteins, called viruslike particles, are produced by yeasts sliced with viral genes."}