{"title": "OBSERVATORY", "body_text": "Nightmare on Elms It may be true that great oaks from little acorns grow, but the problem with British elm trees, apparently, is that they grew from a Roman clone. This genetic uniformity, researchers say, may have contributed to their rapid demise during an outbreak of Dutch elm disease in the 1970's. In a study in the journal Nature, Spanish biologists traced the origin of the English elm using genetic analysis of elm trees from across Europe. The analysis showed similarities among trees from Britain, Italy and the Iberian Peninsula. The researchers say this evidence supports a hypothesis that the British trees are descended from an elm that was cloned by the Romans 2,000 years ago for use in wine production. The tree, known as the Atinian elm, was used to train vines in the vineyards. (Cloning of trees is very common, and not particularly difficult; it usually involves cutting a stem or root from a tree and planting it.) The use of the Atinian elm was advocated by a Roman agronomist, Columella, who had vineyards in Latium in Italy and in Spain. That helps to explain why clone descendants are found in Italy and Spain. The researchers suggest it was probably moved to Britain during Roman settlement there. Then, normal propagation took over (the elms produce pollen and are very effective at spreading themselves) until the English elm became a dominant feature in the landscape. In the mid-70's, however, more than 25 million of them died. If the trees had been more genetically diverse, the researchers say, more would have survived. That One-of-a-Kind Scent The sense of smell is a powerful thing for people, dogs and other mammals, but it's seldom been shown to be such a big deal for birds. Sure, birds can smell, but just how well-developed the sense is, particularly in recognizing other birds, has not been fully explored. Enter the Antarctic prion, a small monogamous seabird that nests in burrows on islands in and around Antarctica. After foraging trips, the returning prion can find its own burrow, and now researchers have discovered why: it recognizes its mate's odor. The researchers, from the Center for Functional and Evolutionary Ecology in Montpellier, France, and the University of California at Davis, studied prions on Ile Verte, a very small island in the Kerguelen Archipelago. The birds have a musty scent that permeates cotton bags used to move them. So the researchers used these bags in a Y-shaped maze, to see which of two odors a bird would be attracted to. In a first series of tests, they found that the birds preferred other birds' odors over their own. Then, when given a choice between a mate's odor and that of another bird, the prions preferred the more familiar one. The findings were reported in the journal Science. In a prion pair, while one bird is foraging at sea (on trips that can last up to two weeks), the other is tending to the nest. When the forager returns home, the nest is heavy with the scent of its partner. So the ability to recognize odors is very useful in helping the returning bird find its home. A Farewell Flight NASA has retired the last of its KC-135 weightlessness-training planes. The four-engine KC-135, a former military tanker, made its final flight on Friday, taking off from Ellington Field in Houston with about two dozen passengers. The plane, known as the ''vomit comet,'' made about 50 of the parabolic arcs, resulting in about a half-minute of weightlessness each time. Among other activities, engineers tested tile repair tools for the space shuttle. This KC-135, the eighth plane in a program dating to 1957, carried several thousand passengers, including many students, during 10 years of flights. It will be replaced by a twin-engine C-9, which is similar to a commercial DC-9. There was no word on how many of those on the final flight, which included a couple of shuttle astronauts, got sick, but motion sickness usually affects about one in three passengers on the training flights. Catch the Wind, Change the Weather Wind turbines have been hailed as an environmentally friendly way to reduce the world's dependence on fossil fuels. But a wind farm with hundreds or even thousands of large turbines removes an enormous amount of energy from the air. So is wind power really benign? In one of the first studies to get at that question, scientists have modeled the impact of a hypothetical large-scale wind farm in the Great Plains. Their conclusion, reported in The Journal of Geophysical Research, is that thousands of turbines concentrated in one area can affect local weather. The impact, said the study's lead author, Dr. Somnath Baidya Roy, comes not so much from the turbines' rotor blades slowing down the air but from atmospheric mixing that occurs in the blades' wake. This creates warmer, drier conditions at the surface. ''We found that it's the turbulence generated by the rotor that is crucial when you talk about the impact on local meteorology,'' said Dr. Baidya Roy, who did the research at Princeton but is now at Duke. The simulated wind farm in the study consisted of 10,000 turbines, with rotor blades 165 feet long, in a 60-by-60-mile grid in north-central Oklahoma. In the Great Plains there is a nighttime stream of fast-moving air that separates cool, moist air near the ground from drier, warmer air above. The simulation found that the turbines catch this nocturnal jet, and the ensuing turbulence causes vertical mixing. The warming and drying that occur when the upper air mass reaches the surface is a significant change, Dr. Baidya Roy said, and is similar to the kinds of local atmospheric changes that occur with large-scale deforestation. ''You might see some kind of convective clouds or scattered rainfall here and there,'' Dr. Baidya Roy said. He noted that the study was only preliminary, but that it pointed to the need to improve rotor design to reduce turbulence. A wind farm of the size used in the simulation is much larger than those that have been built so far, Dr. Baidya Roy acknowledged, but it is not out of line with what is being considered as more power from renewable resources is sought. ''When you think of wind energy, people have a quaint idea of a lone windmill by the river,'' he said. ''We are quite a ways from that, actually.''"}