{"title": "New DVD's", "body_text": "'Shrek 2' The highest-grossing film of the year so far, ''Shrek 2'' comes to DVD on Friday, perfectly timed for maximum holiday giving. The DreamWorks DVD release has been cleverly packaged with an elaborate talking menu that gives you even more riffs from Eddie Murphy, Mike Myers and a few of the other voice actors, as well as a generous selection of promotional videos and outtakes. The latter section includes some technical glitches that give an interesting look at the nuts and bolts of computer animation, of which ''Shrek 2'' remains a polished if not innovative example. The big addition to this sequel to the vastly successful 2001 ''Shrek'' is a new character, a crafty, continental Puss in Boots voiced, very expressively, by Antonio Banderas. Otherwise the film, directed by Andrew Adamson, Kelly Asbury and Conrad Vernon, replays the same winning blend of pop-culture references, inside Hollywood jokes (a few more Disneylike characters are skewered by the executive producer and former Disney honcho Jeffrey Katzenberg), and fairy-tale archetypes reconfigured as fables of self-esteem. Three more years of technological development in computer animation make it possible to give the characters new, more realistic skin textures, including razor stubble for both Shrek and his bride. 2004. $29.99. PG. 'Looney Tunes Golden Collection: Volume 2' A warning: Don't buy this impeccably produced four-disc set from Warner Home Video unless you can afford not to leave the house for a few days. With 60 full-length cartoons from the golden age of Warner animation, plus a mountain of supplementary material, it is awfully hard to hit the stop button even long enough to run to the refrigerator. Like the first volume in the series, released in 2003, this set features stunning new Technicolor restorations of these eight-minute wonders, many with commentary tracks from academics like Greg Ford and Michael Barrier. (The ''Ren and Stimpy'' creator John Kricfalusi comments on one film as well.) A few classics missing from Volume 1 appear here, including ''One Froggy Evening'' and ''What's Opera, Doc?,'', along with glorious obscurities like Tex Avery's maddeningly catchy ''I Love to Singa'' and the black-and-white original version of Bob Clampett's extreme animation ''Porky in Wackyland.'' Mr. Clampett, somewhat neglected in favor of the great Chuck Jones in Volume 1, gets his due here, with other fine examples of his almost frighteningly anarchic style in ''Kitty Kornered,'' ''Book Revue'' and ''A Corny Concerto,'' his devastating parody of ''Fantasia'' with Elmer Fudd as Stokowski (''Welcome, music wovers!''). $64.92. G. 'Animal Farm' Rounding out a big week for cartoons, Home Vision Entertainment offers the 1954 British animated film of George Orwell's anti-totalitarian fable. The film, directed in an acceptable pseudo-Disney style by Joy Batchelor and John Halas, was in the news last year when it was revealed that the C.I.A. had secretly financed the production, purchasing the rights to the novel from Orwell's widow and arranging for the newsreel producer Louis de Rochemont to manage its making. Aimed at adults, who it was hoped would be persuaded to vote Tory after experiencing the film's porcine version of socialism (yes, some pigs are still more equal than others), it is hardly a film to charm today's children, heavy as it is with rhetorical red scares. But as a missing chapter in the underground history of the cold war it's compelling viewing. $24.95. Not rated. 'The More the Merrier' The director George Stevens is doomed to be remembered for the stodgy epics he made in the 1950's: heavy slabs of granite titled ''Shane'' and ''Giant,'' among others. But his best work is found in the intimate, leisurely paced comedy-dramas he made during World War II, including the wonderful 1943 romantic comedy ''The More the Merrier.'' Set during the wartime housing shortage in Washington, the film centers on an uptight government secretary (the troubled Jean Arthur, here looking leggier and sexier than in any of her other films) who advertises for a female roommate and finds herself saddled with a retired business tycoon (Charles Coburn) and a dashing young Army Air Force engineer (Joel McCrea). With Coburn playing fairy godfather, the two young people plow through a string of comic collisions that lead to genuine affection. Though Stevens trained as a cameraman, his greatest strength was his editing. He had an idiosyncratic and effective sense of how long individual shots should run, never simply cutting on dialogue exchanges but on the small emotional breakthroughs that underlie the characters' banter. Nowhere is his technique better illustrated than in this film's celebrated front-stoop sequence, in which Arthur and McCrea sit down for a chat and find themselves suddenly overwhelmed by their need for each other. In six precisely framed shots Stevens defines the exact moment when physical attraction suddenly turns into something more -- that quality old movies unabashedly defined as love. Regrettably, Columbia TriStar Home Video has released this film, one of the absolute gems of its library, in a transfer taken from a worn and contrasty print, with no extras to fill out the disc. It's still highly watchable, but please, there are times when a little respect is called for. $24.96. Not rated. New DVD's"}